Demi Lovato had a very eventful weekend. The singer and actress tied the knot with Jordan “Jutes” Lutes, a songwriter and recording artist, on Sunday in California, Lovato shared with Vogue. She wore a white gown designed by Vivienne Westwood. “When I was thinking about [what dress style I wanted] I often found myself coming back to Vivienne’s designs—specifically how the silhouettes really compliment the curves in your body, and her use of corsets,” Lovato said. She and Lutes reportedly met in January 2022, while working together on Lovato’s album, “Holy Fvck.” Lutes proposed the following year. Lovato’s silk and satin gown that included a corset bodice “was created over the course of five fittings in Los Angeles, with the Vivienne Westwood couture team traveling over from London to bring the look to life.” “I love everything about the dress,” Lovato said. She also wore a second Westwood dress for the reception. “There was so much attention to detail on the reception dress beading,” Lovato explained. “The pearl detail and draping is such a special element, and each strand was draped and attached by hand, one by one,” she said. “It’s a one-of-a-kind piece that makes me feel so special.” Lovato and Lutes have been making beautiful music together. He co-wrote “Substance” with her and she also shared songwriting credits with him on the songs “Happy Ending” and “City of Angels.”
Gas prices are holding steady for the nearly 40 million Americans expected to hit the road on Memorial Day. The average cost of a gallon of regular unleaded in the United States on Sunday was $3.18, according to AAA, the lowest over a Memorial Day weekend since 2021, when the average was $3.04. Gas prices are sharply lower compared with this time last year, when the national average was roughly $3.59, and far lower than 2022, when the average was $4.60. More Americans are expected to be on the road over Memorial Day weekend. AAA estimates about 39.4 million Americans will be driving, an increase of 1 million, or about 3%, from 2024, and a 4.6% increase from 2019. Low gas prices have been a bright spot for the US economy amid an overall gloomy outlook due to President Donald Trump’s trade war and a decline in consumer sentiment. AAA noted the cost of gas hasn’t seen its usual seasonal spikes. “Demand is expected to rise, and pump prices may creep up along with it. Gas prices typically peak in the summer and start coming down when schools go back in session in the fall,” AAA wrote on May 12. Average gas prices have hovered around their current levels since the start of 2025. Gas prices for the holiday are also near historic lows. In 2003, gas was priced at $1.50 a gallon leading into the holiday, which, adjusted for inflation, is roughly $2.65. The holiday gas prices haven’t been below $2 since 2020 — during the Covid-19 pandemic — when the Memorial Day average was at $1.87, according to AAA. “We expect (gas prices) to continue to decline because of the president’s energy policies,” White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said Thursday at a news conference. Trump has focused intensely on lowering energy prices by promising to unleash domestic production, slash red tape and push OPEC to add supply. US oil prices have plunged about 20% since Trump’s second term began in January. Analysts say that drop has been driven in part by Saudi Arabia and OPEC’s sharp production increases — moves that Trump publicly called for days after taking office during a high-profile speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. “A lot of the reason crude prices have fallen is pessimism about the economy and Saudi Arabia and OPEC producing more,” Bob McNally, president of consulting firm Rapidan Energy Group, told CNN last week. Oil prices crashed to four-year lows in early April when Trump’s sky-high tariffs sent recession fears skyrocketing. Crude rebounded after Trump paused many of those tariffs. Also behind lower oil prices: Trump’s decision not to follow through on former President Joe Biden’s final-hours move on January 10 to target Russia’s energy sector with harsh sanctions. CNN’s Matt Egan contributed to this report.
Charles B. Rangel, a civil rights activist, war hero and trailblazing New York congressman whose career saw the high school dropout rise to become one of the most influential Black politicians in modern history, died on Monday. He was 94. Rangel’s death was announced by the City College of New York, where he served as Statesman-in-Residence and launched the Charles B. Rangel Infrastructure Workforce Initiative to boost infrastructure jobs in areas of Manhattan and the Bronx that he called home for nearly a century. First elected to Congress in 1970, Rangel would eventually serve 23 terms in the body, where he co-founded the Congressional Black Caucus and became the first Black member and later chairman of the influential House Ways and Means Committee. He retired in 2017. He was the last surviving member of the “Gang of Four,” the powerful coalition of Harlem lawmakers whose members also included former New York City Mayor David Dinkins, former New York Secretary of State Basil Paterson and former Manhattan Bureau President Percy Sutton. “Black excellence in Harlem, in New York, and in the United States survived because of the work Charlie and his cohorts did to keep it alive,” the Rev. Al Sharpton, who knew Rangel for more than 50 years, said in a statement on Monday. “It is on us now to pick up the torch Charlie Rangel carried for decades to fight for our communities, advance along the road of justice, and uplift ourselves.” Born in Harlem on June 11, 1930, Rangel described a tough childhood during which he witnessed his father beating his mother. Rangel’s father eventually abandoned the family, prompting a young Rangel to move in with his aunt and uncle. After dropping out of high school in 1947, Rangel enlisted in an all-Black battalion in the US Army’s 2nd Infantry Division. He would be deployed to Korea, where as a private first class in November 1950, Rangel was wounded while trying to rescue dozens of men behind enemy lines — actions that earned him a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star with Valor. After leaving the Army in 1952, Rangel used the GI Bill to go to college, earning a degree from New York University and later a law degree from St. John’s University. Rangel briefly worked as an assistant US attorney for the Southern District of New York before he was elected to the New York State Assembly in 1966. During this time, he also became involved in the Civil Rights Movement and marched in both Selma and Montgomery, Alabama. He sought higher office and was elected in 1970 to represent parts of upper Manhattan in Congress. Throughout his time in Congress, Rangel was known for his efforts to fight drug trafficking and as a leading voice against apartheid. He became chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee after Democrats won control of Congress in 2006. But he would later step down from that position after he became the subject of a House Ethics Committee investigation into allegations he accepted trips to the Caribbean that were paid for by corporate interests. Rangel was ordered to repay the money. The House censured Rangel in 2010 after the ethics committee found him guilty of 11 counts of violating House rules, including failing to pay taxes on a vacation home in the Dominican Republic and improperly using his office to raise money for an educational center bearing his name. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on Monday remembered Rangel as “a great man, a great friend, and someone who never stopped fighting for his constituents and the best of America.” “The list of his accomplishments could take pages, but he leaves the world a much better place than he found it,” the New York Democrat said on social media. House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries described Rangel as “a phenomenal patriot, hero, statesman, leader, trailblazer, change agent & champion for justice.” “The Lion of Lenox Ave was a transformational force of nature,” the New York Democrat said. “Harlem, NYC & America are better today because of his service. May he forever rest in power.” This headline and story have been updated with additional information.
EDITOR’S NOTE:  The views expressed in this commentary are solely those of the writers. CNN is showcasing the work of The Conversation, a collaboration between journalists and academics to provide news analysis and commentary. The content is produced solely by The Conversation. For people with chronic gynecological pain conditions, pain can be constant, making everyday activities like sitting, riding a bicycle and even wearing underwear extremely uncomfortable. For many of these people — most of whom identify as women — sexual intercourse and routine pelvic exams are unbearable. Endometriosis and vulvodynia, or chronic genital pain, are common gynecological conditions that can cause severe pain. They each affect about 1 in 10 American women. Yet many women face skepticism and gaslighting in health care settings when they seek care for this type of pain. READ MORE: Ovarian cysts can be painful when they burst. When do you need to see a doctor? We know this well through our research on social cognition and on how people with misunderstood health conditions manage difficult conversations with their doctors and family, as well as through volunteer work alongside people living with these conditions. We’ve consistently found that medical gaslighting around chronic gynecological pain is a complex societal problem, fueled by holes in medical research and training. A 2024 study of patients who went to a clinic for vulvovaginal pain — pain experienced in the external female genitals and vagina –- found that 45% of these patients had been told that they “just needed to relax more” and 39% were made to feel that they were “crazy.” A staggering 55% had considered giving up on seeking care. These results echo what one of us — Elizabeth Hintz — found in her 2023 meta-synthesis: Female patients with chronic pain conditions frequently hear this “it’s all in your head” response from doctors. Another study followed patients in two different major US cities who were seeking care for vulvovaginal pain. The researchers found that most patients saw multiple clinicians but never received a diagnosis. Given the challenges of seeking medical care, many patients turn to social media sources like Reddit for support and information. These studies, among others, illustrate how people with these conditions often spend years going to clinician after clinician seeking care and being told their pain is psychological or perhaps not even real. Given these experiences, why do patients keep seeking care? “Let me describe the pain that would drive me to try so many different doctors, tests and treatments,” a patient with vulvovaginal pain said to her doctor. For her, sex “is like taking your most sensitive area and trying to rip it apart.” “I can now wear any pants or underwear that I want with no pain,” said another patient after successful treatment. “I never realized how much of a toll the pain took on my body every day until it was gone.” Many patients worldwide experience medical gaslighting — a social phenomenon where a patient’s health concerns are not given appropriate medical evaluation and are instead downplayed, misattributed or dismissed outright. Medical gaslighting is rooted in centuries of gender bias in medicine. Women’s reproductive health issues have long been dismissed as psychological or “hysterical.” Genital and pelvic pain especially has been misattributed to psychological rather than biological causes: A century ago, Freudian psychoanalysts incorrectly believed that female sexual pain came from psychological complexes like penis envy. These historical views help shed light on why these symptoms are still not taken seriously today. In addition to the physical toll of untreated pain, medical gaslighting can take a psychological toll. Women may become isolated when other people do not believe their pain. Some internalize this disbelief and can begin to doubt their own perceptions of pain and even their sanity. This cycle of gaslighting compounds the burden of the pain and might lead to long-term psychological effects like anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress symptoms. For some, the repeated experience of being dismissed by clinicians erodes their sense of trust in the health care system. They might hesitate to seek medical attention in the future, fearing they will once again be dismissed. Although some chronic gynecological pain conditions like endometriosis are gaining public attention and becoming better understood, these dynamics persist. Part of the reason for the misunderstanding surrounding chronic gynecological pain conditions is the lack of research on them. A January report from the National Academies found that research on diseases disproportionately affecting women were underfunded compared with diseases disproportionately affecting men. This problem has gotten worse over time. The proportion of funding from the National Institutes of Health spent on women’s health has actually declined over the past decade. Despite these known disparities, in April the Trump administration threatened to end funding for the Women’s Health Initiative, a long-running women’s health research program, further worsening the problem. Without sustained federal funding for women’s health research, conditions like endometriosis and vulvodynia will remain poorly understood, leaving clinicians in the dark and patients stranded. As hard as it is for any female patient to have their pain believed and treated, gaining recognition for chronic pain is even harder for those who face discrimination based on class or race. One 2016 study found that half of the white medical students surveyed endorsed at least one false belief about biological differences between Black and white patients, such as that Black people have physically thicker skin or less sensitive nerve endings than white people. The medical students and residents who endorsed these false beliefs also underestimated Black patients’ pain and offered them less accurate treatment recommendations. Studies show that women are more likely to develop chronic pain conditions and report more frequent and severe pain than men. But women are perceived as more emotional and thus less reliable in describing their pain than men. Consequently, female patients who describe the same symptoms as male patients are judged to be in less pain and are less likely to be offered pain relief, even in emergency settings and with female clinicians. Compared to male patients, female patients are more likely to be prescribed psychological care instead of pain medicine. These lingering erroneous beliefs about gender and race are key reasons patients’ pain is dismissed, misunderstood and ignored. The very real-life consequences for patients include delayed diagnosis, treatment and even death. Correcting these problems will require a shift in clinical training, so as to challenge biased views about pain in women and racial minorities and to educate clinicians about common pain conditions like vulvodynia. Research suggests that medical training needs to teach students to better listen to patients’ lived experiences and admit when an answer isn’t known. In the meantime, people navigating the health care system can take practical steps when encountering dismissive care. They can educate themselves about chronic gynecological pain conditions by reading books like “When Sex Hurts: Understanding and Healing Pelvic Pain” or educational information from trusted sources like the International Society for the Study of Women’s Sexual Health, the International Pelvic Pain Society and the International Society for the Study of Vulvovaginal Disease. Although these steps do not address the roots of medical gaslighting, they can empower patients to better understand the medical conditions that could cause their symptoms, helping to counteract the effects of gaslighting. If someone you know has experienced medical gaslighting and would like support, there are resources available. Organizations like The Endometriosis Association and the National Vulvodynia Association offer support networks and information — like how to find knowledgeable providers. Additionally, connecting with patient advocacy groups like Tight Lipped can provide opportunities for patients to engage in changing the health care system.
Phil Robertson, outdoorsman, businessman and patriarch of the family featured on the A&E reality show “Duck Dynasty,” has died, his family said in a statement. He was 79. “We celebrate today that our father, husband, and grandfather, Phil Robertson, is now with the Lord,” the statement, posted by his daughter-in-law Korie Robertson said. “Thank you for the love and prayers of so many whose lives have been impacted by his life saved by grace, his bold faith, and by his desire to tell everyone who would listen the Good News of Jesus. We are grateful for his life on earth and will continue the legacy of love for God and love for others until we see him again,” the statement continued. A cause of death was not announced. Jase Robertson, one of Phil’s sons, said on their family podcast in December he was facing early stages of Alzheimer’s disease. Robertson founded Duck Commander, a business making duck calls and other duck hunting supplies. “Duck Dynasty,” which ran from 2012-2017, followed “the close-knit clan behind a multi-million dollar sporting empire,” according to A&E. “In the duck hunting world he was an innovator.. a man with an unwavering love for what he did best…and enjoyed most,” a statement on the Duck Commander Instagram page read. Robertson was briefly suspended from the show in 2013 due to incendiary remarks he made about homosexuality in an interview with GQ magazine. Robertson used language that his family later described as “coarse,” and A&E placed him on hiatus. Just days later, it was announced the series would resume filming with the entire family, including Robertson. “We are saddened to hear of the passing of Phil Robertson, a hunting industry pioneer and the patriarch of the beloved Robertson family,” a statement on “Duck Dynasty’s” Facebook page said. “Our thoughts are with them during this difficult time. We extend our deepest condolences and respect their privacy as they grieve.” “We know so many of you love him and have been impacted by his life. We’re having a private service for now, but we’ll share details soon about a public celebration of his life,” the family statement said.
The head of a new aid distribution program for Gaza, backed by the US and Israel, resigned on Sunday after weeks of controversy, citing concerns over impartiality and urging Israel to allow more aid into the blockaded enclave. On Monday, the group began operations in Gaza. The Gaza Humanitarian Foundation (GHF) is meant to run a new, tightly controlled, mechanism for aid deliveries into Gaza, but it has been criticized by the United Nations and others, who warn it risks further displacing Palestinians and endangering civilians. US military veteran Jake Wood quit as GHF’s executive director after just a matter of weeks at the organization, publicly launched by the US in early May. “I am proud of the work I oversaw, including developing a pragmatic plan that could feed hungry people, address security concerns about diversion, and complement the work of longstanding NGOs in Gaza,” said Wood in a statement. “However, it is clear that it is not possible to implement this plan while also strictly adhering to the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality, and independence, which I will not abandon,” he added. Related article
A US-backed group says it will deliver aid to Gaza, but humanitarian organizations are skeptical. Here’s what we know The GHF said in a statement it was “disappointed” by Wood’s resignation, criticizing opponents who they said “have been more focused on tearing this apart than on getting aid in.” On Monday it announced the interim executive director would be John Acree, a “a senior humanitarian practitioner with more than two decades of global field experience in disaster response, stabilization programming, and civil-military coordination.” The organization said it delivered truckloads of food to its secure distribution sites, on Monday “where distribution to the Gazan people began.” The statement added that more aid trucks would be delivered the following day and that the flow of aid would increase daily. The GHF’s plan for delivering aid has been approved by Israel and the US, which both countries say is designed to prevent Hamas from “stealing” aid. The organization said in its Monday statement that Hamas was making “death threats targeting aid groups supporting humanitarian operations at GHF’s Safe Distribution Sites.” “It is clear that Hamas is threatened by this new operating model, and will do everything in its power to see it fail,” GHF said. The group is supposed to start operating four distribution sites, all located in southern and central Gaza – but it has come under heavy criticism from top humanitarian officials, with the UN and other organizations refusing to work with the new group. The UN warned that the fact the initial sites were only in southern and central Gaza could be seen as encouraging Israel’s publicly stated goal of forcing “the entire Gazan population” out of northern Gaza, as Defense Minister Israel Katz put it earlier this month. The US and the GHF have both been at pains to say that it is not an Israeli initiative – despite Israel’s support for it, and its role in designating and securing the distribution sites. Speaking to CNN earlier in May, Wood had urged the UN and other groups to reconsider their opposition, admitting that the plan was “not perfect,” but would allow critical aid and food supplies to Gazans who desperately need it. He added in May that he “unequivocally… will not be a part of anything that forcibly dislocates or displaces the Palestinian population.” In his resignation statement on Sunday, he said he had sought to establish the foundation “as a truly independent humanitarian entity” during his time as its executive director. Wood said he was “horrified and heartbroken at the hunger crisis in Gaza” and was “compelled to do whatever I could to help alleviate the suffering.” “I urge Israel to significantly expand the provision of aid into Gaza through all mechanisms, and I urge all stakeholders to continue to explore innovative new methods for the delivery of aid, without delay, diversion, or discrimination,” Wood said. The GHF is only expected to be able to feed about 60% of Gaza’s population in its first weeks. A private American security contractor will be responsible for guarding its aid trucks from the Gaza border to the distribution sites and will not be involved in distributing the aid to civilians, Wood had previously said. Gaza faces widespread starvation amid a severe shortage of essential humanitarian aid. The Palestinian Ministry of Health in Gaza has recorded 58 deaths from malnutrition and 242 deaths from shortages of food and medicine since Israel’s blockade on aid began in March, it said. More than 300 miscarriages had been attributed to a lack of nutrients, the ministry told CNN on Sunday. Last week, Israel said it would allow a “basic amount of food” to enter Gaza due to an “operational need” as the military pushes ahead with its offensive, dubbed “Gideon’s Chariots.” The Israeli Prime Minister’s Office has said a hunger crisis in Gaza could jeopardize the operation, which  Israel says aims to defeat Hamas. Ahmad Al-Banna, who owns a bakery in Deir al-Balah in Gaza, told CNN Sunday that he had reopened on Wednesday, only to close three days later, because flour stocks had run out. “Gaza is exhausted,” he said. “There are starving people in the streets.” Another resident, Um Jamal Musleh, said she and her two children relied on the local charity-run kitchen. “Today, we were shocked to see a sign saying it’s the last day for the kitchen. That means we’ll go hungry,” she said. Asmaa Al-Kafarneh, who was waiting at the kitchen on Sunday, said she had not eaten bread in two months. “If we don’t die from Israeli airstrikes, we’ll die of hunger,” she said. Israel said it allowed 107 aid trucks into the territory on Sunday and 170 on Monday – but the UN has said that’s not nearly enough. The enclave needs at least 500 to 600 trucks daily to avert a deepening humanitarian catastrophe, as civilians face a severe shortage of supplies like food and medicine, said UNRWA, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees in Gaza. The UN has also complained that Israel has insisted on humanitarian aid traveling along insecure routes, preventing many aid trucks from safely arriving at their destinations.
Immigration officials said Tomás Hernández worked in high-level posts for Cuba’s foreign intelligence agency for decades before migrating to the United States to pursue the American dream. The 71-year-old was detained by federal agents outside his Miami-area home in March and accused of hiding his ties to Cuba’s Communist Party when he obtained permanent residency. Cuban-Americans in South Florida have long clamored for a firmer hand with Havana and the recent apprehensions of Hernández and several other former Cuban officials for deportation have been extremely popular among the politically powerful exile community. “It’s a political gift to Cuban-American hardliners,” said Eduardo Gamarra, a Latin American expert at Florida International University. But many Cubans fear they could be next on Trump’s list, he said, and “some in the community see it as a betrayal.” While President Donald Trump’s mass deportation pledge has frightened migrants from many nations, it has come as something of a shock to the 2.4 million Cuban-Americans, who strongly backed the Republican twice and have long enjoyed a place of privilege in the U.S. immigration system. Amid record arrivals of migrants from the Caribbean island, Trump in March revoked temporary humanitarian parole for about 300,000 Cubans. Many have been detained ahead of possible deportation. Among those facing deportation is a pro-Trump Cuban rapper behind a hit song “Patria y Vida” — “Homeland and Life” — that became the unofficial anthem of anti-communist protests on the island in 2021 and drew praise from the likes of then Republican Sen. Marco Rubio, now Secretary of State. Eliéxer Márquez, who raps under the name El Funky, said he received notice this month that he had 30 days to leave the U.S. Thanks to Cold War laws aimed at removing Fidel Castro, Cuban migrants for many decades enjoyed almost automatic refugee status in the U.S. and could obtain green cards a year after entry, unlike migrants from virtually every other country. Support for Trump among likely Cuban-American voters in Miami was at an all-time high on the eve of last year’s election, according to a poll by Florida International University, which has been tracking the Cuban-American community since 1991. Trump rarely mentions Cubans in his attacks on migrant targets including Venezuelans and Haitians. That has given many Cubans hope that they will remain immune to immigration enforcement actions. Democrats, meanwhile, have been trying to turn the immigration crackdown to their advantage. In April, grassroots groups erected two giant billboards on Miami highways calling Rubio and Republican Reps. Mario Díaz-Balart, María Elvira Salazar and Carlos Giménez “traitors” to the Cuban-American community for failing to protect tens of thousands of migrants from Trump’s immigration policies. The arrest of former Cuban state agents is one way to bolster Trump allies, Gamarra said. In March, Giménez sent Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem a letter with the names of 108 people he said were former Cuban state agents or Communist Party officials living unlawfully in the U.S. “It is imperative that the Department of Homeland Security enforce existing U.S. laws to identify, deport and repatriate these individuals who pose a direct threat to our national security, the integrity of our immigration system and the safety of Cuban exiles and American citizens alike,” Giménez wrote, adding that the U.S. remains a “beacon of hope and freedom for those escaping tyranny.” Giménez’s target list was compiled by Luis Dominguez, who left Cuba in 1971 and has made it his mission to topple Cuba’s government. In 2009, when the internet was still a novelty in Cuba, Dominguez said he posed as a 27-year-old female sports journalist from Colombia to lure Castro’s son Antonio into an online romance. “Some people dream with making money, or with growing old and going on vacation,” said Dominguez, who lives in Connecticut. “I dream with seeing my country free.” With support from the right-wing Foundation for Human Rights in Cuba, he started combing social media and relying on a well-oiled network of anti-socialist sources, inside Cuba and outside the country, to dox officials allegedly behind human rights abuses and violations of democratic norms. To date, his website, Represores Cubanos — Cuban Repressors — has identified more than 1,200 such state agents, some 150 in the United States. “They’re chasing the American dream, but previously they condemned it while pursuing the Cuban dream,” Dominguez said. “It’s the typical double life of any Communist regime. When they were in power they criticized anything about the U.S. But now that they’re here, they love it.” Dominguez, 62, said he regularly shares his findings with federal law enforcement but a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement didn’t comment on the agency’s relationship with the activist. Enrique Garcia, a former colleague, said he studied with Hernández in the former Soviet Union in the 1970s. Upon their return, Hernández was sent to work in the spy agency’s elite “North America” department, said Garcia. Garcia, who defected to the U.S. in the 1990s and has devoted himself to helping American spy catchers unmask Cuban agents, said one-time Cuban agents have infiltrated the current migration wave while hiding their past and even current loyalties to the Cuban government. “You can’t be on both sides at the same time,” he said. It’s not known when Hernández entered the U.S. and why. U.S. immigration law generally bars people who’ve belonged to Communist parties. Anyone caught lying on their green card application can be deported or prosecuted. But removing Cubans who are no longer welcome in the U.S. could prove challenging. The Trump administration sends a single 60-passenger plane to Cuba every month as part of its deportation drive, unchanged from the past year’s average, according to Witness at the Border, which tracks removal flights. At that rate, it would take almost 700 years to send back the estimated 500,000 Cubans who arrived during the Biden administration and now lack protected status. At Versailles Restaurant, the epicenter of Miami’s Little Havana, few among its anti-Communist clientele seemed poised to turn on Trump, who visited the iconic cafe twice during the recent presidential campaign. One regular retiree, 83-year-old Rafael Nieto, even wore a giant Trump 2024 hat and pin. Most of the aging exiles applauded Trump’s migration crackdown overhaul but there were a few cracks in the GOP armor. As the late afternoon banter switched between talk of CIA plots to assassinate Castro and President John F. Kennedy’s failure to provide air cover during the 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion, one retiree stood up and quietly stepped away from his friends. “People are trembling,” Tony Freitas, who came to the U.S. from Cuba in the 1980 Mariel boatlift, said in a hushed voice. “For any little thing, you could be deported.”
President Donald Trump announced he is granting a “full and unconditional pardon” to a former Virginia sheriff, Scott Jenkins, who was convicted of conspiracy, honest services fraud and bribery. “This Sheriff is a victim of an overzealous Biden Department of Justice, and doesn’t deserve to spend a single day in jail,” Trump claimed in a Monday Truth Social post. Jenkins, the former sheriff of Culpeper County, was set to report to jail Tuesday. “He is a wonderful person, who was persecuted by the Radical Left ‘monsters,’ and ‘left for dead.’ This is why I, as President of the United States, see fit to end his unfair sentence, and grant Sheriff Jenkins a FULL and Unconditional Pardon. He will NOT be going to jail tomorrow, but instead will have a wonderful and productive life,” Trump added. In March, under the Trump administration, Jenkins was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison for “accepting over $75,000 in bribes in exchange for appointing numerous Northern Virginia businessmen as auxiliary deputy sheriffs within his department,” according to a release from the US attorney’s office for the Western District of Virginia. He was convicted by a jury in December 2024 of one count of conspiracy, four counts of honest services fraud, and seven counts of bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. Jenkins accepted bribes in the form of campaign contributions from three co-defendants and others, including two undercover FBI agents, according to the US attorney’s office, and then rewarded them with the auxiliary deputy sheriff positions. “Scott Jenkins violated his oath of office and the faith the citizens of Culpeper County placed in him when he engaged in a cash-for-badges scheme,” acting United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee said in a statement at the time of his sentencing. “We hold our elected law enforcement officials to a higher standard of conduct and this case proves that when those officials use their authority for unjust personal enrichment, the Department of Justice will hold them accountable. I am grateful to the FBI for their tireless work on this investigation,” Lee added. Jenkins was elected sheriff of Culpeper County in 2011 and took office in January 2012. He was reelected in 2015 and 2019.
Some soldiers prove their valor in battle. Lt. Roland Christensen revealed his character on another proving ground—with a split-second decision that would change another Navy pilot’s life. On March 17, 1947, Christensen gathered with other flight instructors at a naval air base in Glenview, Illinois. They appraised a group of nervous trainees who had assembled for the first day of selective flight training. The stakes were high — an average of 10 pilots per day washed out of Glenview. One of the trainees had another reason for nerves. He was a slim, Black man named Jesse Leroy Brown. The son of Mississippi sharecroppers, Brown was attempting to become the Navy’s first Black pilot. One flight instructor told him “You’ll never sit your Black a** in a Navy plane.” Others dubbed him “oil slick” or called him “n***er.” The other instructors ignored Brown as they greeted trainees and peeled off for their first training flights. But Christensen approached him with an outstretched hand. “You’ll be flying with me today,” Christensen said, ignoring the snickers and glares from the other White trainers. Brown snapped to attention with a hearty, “Yessir!” Brown would go on to break the Navy’s color barrier, becoming its first Black pilot. He would earn the Distinguished Flying Cross for valor during the Korean War. A Navy ship would eventually be named after him, and his life would inspire a bestselling book and movie. But Brown never would have taken off without Christensen’s moral courage. These are the type of stories that have long helped make the modern US military so distinctive. The military is the most racially integrated institution in America. This is not just reflected in numbers but also in power: Although problems with deep-rooted racism persist, people of color have risen to the top echelons of the US military. That integration, though, goes beyond race. The military is one of the few large institutions left in America where citizens voluntarily form close relationships with people of different religions, socio-economic backgrounds and ethnicities — all in service of a common national purpose. Combat veterans in particular talk about the brotherhood, and sisterhood, formed in battle. “The enduring emotion of war, when everything else has faded, is comradeship,” William Broyles Jr., a combat veteran in Vietnam, wrote in a classic essay. “A comrade in war is a man you can trust with anything, because you trust him with your life.” But now some of America’s leaders are telling a different story. The Trump administration has launched a purge of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives throughout the armed forces and military academies. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth says a culture of “wokeness and weakness” has made the military less lethal. Hegseth, who wrote in a book published last year that “America’s white sons and daughters are walking away” from military service, says he wants to restore the “warrior” mentality to America’s military. “I think the single dumbest phrase in military history is ‘Our diversity is our strength,” Hegseth said in February in a speech at the Pentagon. But the strongest rebuttal to Hegseth’s argument is military history itself. Many of the nation’s biggest military blunders occurred because there wasn’t enough diversity in the armed forces. Consider one the worst military disasters to befall the US: the Japanese’s navy’s 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, which triggered the nation’s entrance into World War II. Most history books describe the event simply as a Japanese sneak attack. At least 2,400 Americans were killed and images of the massive USS Arizona battleship, engulfed in flames and billowing black smoke, represent one of the nation’s most humiliating military failures. But the US had ample warnings that the Japanese might attack. Why didn’t they heed those warnings? One factor was racism, some military historians say. America’s military leadership in the mid-20th century was all-White, and many commanders harbored stereotypes about the Japanese. When Admiral Husband Kimmel, commander of Pearl Harbor’s navy base, was later asked about the intelligence failures that led to the attack, he said, “I never thought those little yellow sons of bitches could pull off such an attack, so far from Japan.” US military leaders had succumbed to “groupthink,” which often occurs when there’s not enough diversity in a decision-making body. The term was popularized by psychologist Irving Janis. It comes from an essay he wrote in the 1970s that described how groupthink leads to military failures. It describes a dynamic where a group unwittingly creates a culture of conformity when making decisions. The desire for group consensus blocks out alternative points of view. No one feels empowered to disagree. The risk for groupthink increases with homogeneous groups, or groups with members who share the same background and experience. Janis wrote that American military commanders didn’t pay attention to warnings of an impending attack in part because of groupthink. They saw Japan “as a midget that would not dare to strike a blow against a powerful giant.” He also wrote that groupthink led to other American military blunders, including the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba under President Kennedy and President Truman’s ill-fated decision to invade North Korea, which brought China into the Korean War. Groupthink also led to the debacle in Vietnam. The Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Barbara Tuchman wrote the US lost that war in part because the Kennedy and Johnson administrations lacked anyone with a deep understanding of Vietnamese culture, politics and history. She had a term for that groupthink failure: “The March of Folly.” With its DEI purge, the Trump administration is making the same mistake that American military leaders made in the past, says Kyle Bibby, an infantry captain in the US Marines who served in Afghanistan. He cited several recent decisions: Trump’s firing of Charles Q. Brown, the second Black person to serve as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (Colin Powell was the first); and Hegseth’s firing of Admiral Lisa Franchetti, the chief of the Navy. The Defense Department has also banned using official resources to celebrate cultural awareness events such as Black History and Hispanic Heritage months.  The US Naval Academy last month banned nearly 400 books in its library that dealt with racial justice, gender and LGBTQ+ issues. The library, however, reportedly still retained two copies of “Mein Kampf” by Adolf Hitler. “They’re trying to make a very clear statement to the military that this is a White man’s military and the rest of you will fall in line,” says Bibby, co-founder of the Black Veterans Project, a group that preserves the legacy of Black veterans and secures restitution for Black soldiers denied benefits. Bibby says the purge doesn’t make business sense, either. “There’s no one on Earth who genuinely thinks that having differing opinions and experiences wile coming together to solve issues or build products is a bad thing for a team,” Bibby tells CNN. “The only people who think like that are people who believe in groupthink.” Yet research shows it’s not enough for a military to be diverse. Numbers don’t mean much if women or non-White soldiers don’t feel valued and heard. This belief led to one of the most important victories in the Iraq War, one American general recently wrote in an essay. Gen. Mark Hertling was commanding an Army division during the Iraq War in 2008 when he noticed an increase in suicide bombings carried out by Iraqi women, often in crowded public places. He couldn’t figure out how to stop it. Cultural prohibitions prevented men from touching and searching women. The solution came from a junior female officer. At her suggestion, the military arranged a conference for Iraqi women to convince them that they had a stake in their country’s future. Within months, 60 female officers were fanning out across Iraqi provinces. Hertling, who is retired and a former CNN commentator, doesn’t answer that question in his essay, but he says that female officer saved lives. “By the time 1st armored division rotated home, not only was the female suicide-vest cell almost completely destroyed, but the overall level of violence in northern Iraq was down significantly,” Hertling wrote. The scenario Hertling described would not have possible not too long ago. This is not the US military’s first DEI purge. The voices and contributions of women and people of color were overlooked and erased through much of America’s military history. Black soldiers were routinely treated as second-class citizens, held menial jobs such as cooks and were forced to serve in racially segregated units. Women in the military routinely experienced — and still do — discrimination and sexual harassment. President Truman began to change this culture in 1948 when he issued an executive order desegregating the US military. Today, 32% of active-duty members are racial minorities and 17.7% are women, according to a 2023 Department of Defense study. The military’s march to diversity faced some of its stiffest challenges in Vietnam. The racial tensions of 1960s America spilled over into the battlefield. There were constant reports of “fragging,” incidents in which US soldiers killed their comrades. Racial tensions between White and Black soldiers led to many fragging incidents. The military created many of its diversity programs after Vietnam because they learned that a racially divided army cost lives, says Matthew Delmont, author of “Half-American: The Epic Story of African Americans Fighting World War II at Home and Abroad.” “It wasn’t about being politically correct,” Delmont says. “It was about we’re going to be less effective fighting wars if we can’t sort out this racial business.” One Vietnam veteran recalls how racial tension affected his soldiers. Karl Marlantes, was then a young White man from a coastal logging town in Oregon when he commanded a platoon in Vietnam. He recalls the sensation of fighting two battles—one against the North Vietnamese, and another to hold marines together in the rear. “I can just remember the sadness I felt in my platoon,” says Marlantes, who wrote about his war experiences in “Matterhorn,” and “What It Is Like to Go to War.” “We would all work together in the bush but when we got off the chopper, all the Black kids are in one part and the White kids in another part.” Marlantes tells CNN he once tried to persuade a Black soldier to hang out with White soldiers as well but the soldier refused. “He said I don’t want to be the one Black guy hanging out with a bunch of White guys when suddenly there’s a riot,” Marlantes says. “There was a lot of fear.” That type of fear can lead to defeat. Armies that are divided by racial and ethnic tensions that bleed over from civilian life underperform, says Jason Lyall, author of “Divided Armies: Inequality and Battlefield Performance in Modern War.” Lyall says he studied nearly 850 armies in 250 wars fought since 1800 and made a discovery: inclusive armies fight harder, suffer lower rates of desertion and exhibit more creative problem solving on the battlefield. “Victory on the battlefield over the past 200 years has usually gone to the most inclusive armies,” Lyall wrote in a 2020 essay, “not the largest or best equipped.” There was another reason the American military decided to become more diverse after World War II. They saw what happened to Nazi Germany. People sometimes forget that Nazi Germany was built on, and destroyed by, racism. A racist demagogue persuaded Germans that other groups were inherently inferior. The Nazis’ demonization of ethnic and religious minorities, as well as political opponents, led to the Holocaust. Many of the American soldiers who liberated the concentration camps were stunned that an advanced country like Germany could turn so barbaric. Some of them were Black veterans like Leon Bass, who simmered in anger over the racist treatment he received in the segregated Army. Then he entered the Buchenwald Concentration camp. There he encountered what he called the “walking dead”— emaciated survivors who wordlessly stumbled toward him with sores across their naked bodies. “Segregation, racism, can lead to the ultimate (horror) … that’s what I saw in Buchenwald,” says Bass, who died at 90 in 2015. Fear of a similar democratic collapse motivated Americans like Bass after World War II. They resolved to, as the author David Brooks said, never “fall for the strongman’s deductive promise of domination.” They invoked, without irony, America’s traditional motto, “E Pluribus unum,” meaning “Out of many one.” No other idea captured the nation’s imagination like racial integration during the 1950s and ‘60s, says Leonard Steinhorn, co-author of “By The Color Of Our Skin.” “We saw ourselves as the big melting pot where everyone blended together and all the characteristics of different groups added to the pot,” Steinhorn tells CNN. “We wanted to believe that we could be better, that we weren’t bound by the prejudices, hatreds and outdated ideologies of old.” But in recent years the desire for common ground seems to have evaporated. Our schools and communities remain widely segregated. Diversity programs are being driven out of academia and corporate America. People are self-sorting into political enclaves where they have little contact with people with different opinions. The military is a last bastion of integration in America. Not even college and pro sports teams approach its commitment to the concept. Communities with large military installations dominate the list of the least segregated metropolitan areas of the US. There are higher rates of intermarriage among military members. That diversity serves a vital military interest, some of the country’s leading military leaders recently said. Thirty-five retired senior defense officials, including four former chairmen of the joint chiefs of staff, signed an amicus brief in 2022 supporting diversity as vital for the nation’s armed services. “History has shown that placing a diverse Armed Forces under the command of a homogeneous leadership is a recipe of internal resentment, discord, and violence,” they wrote. That diversity is also needed more than ever because of another factor: In recent years the military has faced a severe recruiting shortage. The Army, for example, missed its recruitment goal by nearly 25% in 2022 and 2023. An uptick in recruiting that began last summer has carried over into 2025 so far. But a fundamental challenge remains: an all-volunteer force must consistently attract large numbers of people of color if it’s going to remain effective. Here’s another intangible reason why diversity makes the military stronger. Some of the biggest beneficiaries of this diversity are White men. They may become hidden casualties in this war on wokeness. Diversity not only increases the chance that they will succeed in war zones. It teaches them how to negotiate differences with someone who is different — a vital skill for preserving a multiracial and multicultural democracy. Bibby says Black Marines swelled with pride when they saw his captain bars, but it was also important that White soldiers saw him. There are numerous historical examples of White soldiers who harbored racist attitudes being transformed by serving with, and fighting alongside, Black soldiers. “We don’t talk enough about how much it means to young White men who have never seen a Black captain to understand that I’m a part of this damn story,” Bibby says. “It’s important that they see Black and women officers and they understand that we’re all part of the same team.” Marlantes says he has a comfort level with Black people he probably wouldn’t have otherwise if not for his experiences in the Marines. He says he met all sorts of soldiers who expanded his perspective. “We had an artillery forward observer whose great-grandfather owned Hilton Head,” says Marlantes of the popular South Carolina tourist destination. “He was rich. And he was in there with us, eating cold beans and being miserable while trying to save our ass by bringing in artillery.” Christensen, the naval instructor who taught the Navy’s first Black pilot, was also transformed by an unlikely friendship. A descendent of Danish immigrants, he grew up on a Nebraska farm where he knew no Black people. But he was also poor and knew what it felt like to be an outsider. He bonded with Brown over those shared experiences. The two men later exchanged letters that Christensen kept in a cedar chest in his home for more than 60 years. Their friendship reflected the profound bonds that often form between people who serve together in the armed forces. “It is,” Philip Caputo wrote in his classic Vietnam War memoir, “A Rumor of War, “unlike marriage, a bond that cannot be broken by a word, by boredom or divorce, or by anything other than death.” Their friendship ended when Brown was killed in action in 1950 during the Korean War. He was shot down and died before a rescue helicopter could ferry him to safety. After hearing about Brown’s death, Christensen became a helicopter rescue pilot and saved six pilots during the Korean War. Before he died at 91 in 2014, he made an admission to his daughter, Nancy King. “He told me that there wasn’t a single week that had gone by since 1950 that he didn’t think about Jesse Brown,” King said. “He said, “I dream about it.’ “ Critics of DEI will say that the friendship between Brown and Christensen fulfills their vision of a colorblind military. They want a military meritocracy, where only competence matters. But integration of any kind never happens naturally in any large institution. The old hierarchies from civilian life can easily reassert themselves in the military. Armies splinter, groupthink leads to disasters and people die. The Trump administration’s DEI purge ignores those hard-won lessons. It will go down as an epic case of friendly fire, a self-inflicted wound that harms more than helps. It’s another march of folly. John Blake is a CNN senior writer and author of  the award-winning memoir, “More Than I Imagined: What a Black Man Discovered About the White Mother He Never Knew.”
UK police have arrested a man after a car plowed into Liverpool fans during the soccer club’s Premier League trophy parade on Monday evening, injuring dozens of people including four children. “The man arrested is a 53-year-old white British man from the Liverpool area,” Merseyside police said in a statement, urging people not to speculate on the circumstances of the incident. A total of 27 people were taken to hospital, the head of service at North West Ambulance Service NHS Trust David Kitchin told a news conference. Two of those hospitalized – one child and one adult – had “sustained serious injuries,” he said. Four people – three adults and one child – had to be removed from underneath the vehicle, according to Chief Fire Officer of Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service Nick Searle, who said a further 20 people were treated at the scene for minor injuries. Merseyside Police’s Assistant Chief Constable Jenny Sims said the incident was not being treated as terrorism. She said the man arrested is believed to be the driver of the car. The local police force said they were contacted just after 6 p.m. local time (1 p.m. ET) “following reports a car had been in collision with a number of pedestrians” in the city center. The incident came as the city was filled with soccer fans attending an open-top bus parade to celebrate Liverpool Football Club’s 20th top-flight league title. Video from social media appears to show the vehicle plowing into pedestrians celebrating in the street. “This gray people carrier just pulled up from the right and just rammed into all the people at the side of us … It was extremely fast. Initially, we just heard the pop, pop, pop of people just being knocked off the bonnet of a car,” one fan, Harry Rashid, told the UK’s PA Media news agency. Rashid, who attended the parade with his wife and two young daughters, said crowds of people ran over and started to smash the car’s windows. “It was horrible. And you could hear the bumps as he was going over the people … I saw people lying on the ground, people unconscious. It was horrendous. So horrendous,” he said. The parade on Monday – which coincided with a separate May public holiday in the UK – involved players from the Liverpool squad being driven around the city center in an open-top bus. Hundreds of thousands of gleeful fans joined the festivities along the 10-mile route (16 kilometers) waving flags and flares of red smoke. “The scenes in Liverpool are appalling – my thoughts are with all those injured or affected,” UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer said, thanking police and emergency services “for their swift and ongoing response to this shocking incident.” Footage shared by Reuters news agency showed emergency services tending to people, some being carried into ambulances on stretchers. Photos from the scene also showed authorities cordoning off the heavily littered roads, with police officers investigating the area. A tent has been set up where the crash occurred. Liverpool Football Club said it is in contact with Merseyside Police regarding the incident. “Our thoughts and prayers are with those who have been affected by this serious incident. We will continue to offer our full support to the emergency services and local authorities who are dealing with this incident,” it said on X. Everton Football Club, the local rival team to Liverpool FC, and the Premier League also offered their condolences on social media. In a subsequent post on social media, NWAS said the scene in Liverpool’s city center “has now been cleared.” A local hospital group has made a plea for people to refrain from calling its switchboard. “We know that many people are concerned about loved ones. Next of kin will be contacted, so please help us to manage the incident as best we can by refraining from calling our switchboard,” NHS University Hospitals of Liverpool Group said on X. This story has been updated with the latest developments.
Doctors interact with patients, in many cases, when they are feeling their worst – so, how they talk to those patients during such a vulnerable time matters. That’s the philosophy of Abraham Verghese, the bestselling author, Stanford professor, and infectious disease doctor who will address students at Harvard University’s 374th Commencement this week. Harvard’s invitation to Verghese, comes at a time of significant uncertainty at the Ivy League school amid its ongoing clashes with the Trump administration over academic freedom, federal funding, campus oversight and most recently, a ban on the enrollment of international students. Verghese will be the first physician to give Harvard’s commencement speech since 1996, according to the school’s student-run newspaper, The Harvard Crimson. That year, Harold E. Varmus, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist and former director of the National Institutes of Health, told graduates that supporting science was a shared human responsibility. “He has pursued excellence across disciplines with an intensity surpassed only by his humanity, which shines brilliantly through his works of both fiction and nonfiction, as well as his work as a clinician and teacher,” said Harvard President Alan M. Garber about Verghese in the university’s commencement announcement. In previous years, graduates have heard from many accomplished speakers: Nobel Prize-winning journalist Maria Ressa, Academy Award-winning actor Tom Hanks, former German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Academy Award-winning director Steven Spielberg and media mogul Oprah Winfrey. While the 69-year-old may not be a household name, Verghese is a prominent physician. His journey has taken him across the United States, healing patients through medicine and reaching people through literature, including his 2023 novel “The Covenant of Water.” Verghese declined to be interviewed for this story, but wrote on social media he was “deeply honored” to have been invited to Harvard by Garber, who was previously one of his colleagues at the Stanford School of Medicine. For many years, Verghese has advocated for strengthening the physician-patient connection and bedside skills. He joined the Stanford School of Medicine in 2007 as a professor and is currently, vice chair for the Theory & Practice of Medicine program. He also founded an interdisciplinary center at Stanford focused on the human experience in medicine and Stanford Medicine 25, an initiative designed to foster bedside exam skills for professionals. For Verghese, the most important innovation in medicine is “the power of the human hand to touch, to comfort, to diagnose, and to bring about treatment,” according to his 2011 TED Talk in Edinburgh, Scotland. Technology is impacting the interactions b﻿etween patients and doctors because hospital rounds often center around data and images on a computer, far away from the actual patient, Verghese said during the TED Talk. “The ritual of one individual coming to another and telling them things that they would not tell their preacher or rabbi, and then, incredibly, on top of that, disrobing and allowing touch, I would submit to you that that is a ritual of exceeding importance,” Verghese said. “And if you short change that ritual by not undressing the patient, by listening with your stethoscope on top of the nightgown, by not doing a complete exam, you have bypassed on the opportunity to seal the patient-physician relationship.” Through Presence, an interdisciplinary center at Stanford, and Stanford Medicine 25, Verghese hopes to educate future medical professionals on bedside medicine, harnessing technology for the human experience as well as studying and advocating for the patient-physician relationship. Verghese has drawn from his personal experiences in three continents to fuel the type of educator and writer he has become today. He was born in Ethiopia’s capital city of Addis Ababa to expatriate Indian parents, who were both educators, and grew up there as the country was ruled by Emperor Haile Selassie.  He started medical school in Ethiopia but fled the country when Selassie was toppled by a violent military dictatorship in the 1970s, Verghese wrote in The Guardian. Verghese reunited with his parents in New Jersey, where they had previously moved. There, he began working as a hospital orderly, which ultimately inspired him to return to his family’s homeland and become a physician. “Looking back, that was the best medical education I could have had, because I saw what happened to the patient in the 23 hours and 58 minutes the doctors were not in the room,” Verghese shared in an interview with a medical journal about his time as an orderly. Once he graduated from medical school in India, Verghese returned to the US and completed his residency at a hospital in Johnson City, Tennessee, followed by a fellowship in infectious diseases at the former Boston City Hospital in Massachusetts in the mid-1980s. During his time in rural east Tennessee, Verghese had a front row seat to the frontlines of the AIDS epidemic. That experience﻿ “humbled” him and changed the way he saw his practice, he said in an interview with the American Society of Hematology’s magazine, ASH Clinical News. “We learned what it meant to heal when we could not cure,” he told the magazine. “We realized how much our presence and caring mattered. A cure wasn’t within our reach, but we were making a profound difference by indicating to the patient that we would be there, that we were not running away.” And despite being able to do so little for his patients, who battled a disease with no treatment, he focused on providing them comfort and doing so filled him with purpose. After witnessing so much loss and health care workers’ burnout during the AIDS epidemic, Verghese has said becoming a writer became “a matter of self-preservation.” In 1990, the physician pressed pause on medicine to focus on his writing and attended the prestigious Iowa Writers’ Workshop at the University of Iowa, according to his website. After earning his master’s degree in Iowa, Verghese moved to El Paso, Texas, where he was a professor of medicine and chief of the division of infectious diseases at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center for 11 years. During that time, he would spend his evenings writing, he told Palo Alto Online. “Writing became my escape from the pressures of being an infectious disease clinician, ” he told ASH Clinical News. “Other people might have played golf or something, but for me it was writing,” he added. In his first novel “My Own Country: A Doctor’s Story,” Verghese pulled back the curtain on his own experiences and the meaningful, personal relationships he formed during the AIDS epidemic. The 1994 book was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award and listed as one of Time magazine’s best books of the year. Verghese has written several other award-winning titles, including “The Tennis Partner,” “Cutting for Stone,” and most recently, “The Covenant of Water,” which is a New York Times bestseller, a Oprah’s Book Club pick and was named one of former president Barack Obama’s favorite books of 2023. “In my work as a writer, I have always tried to convey the notion that medicine is a uniquely human, person-to-person endeavor,” Verghese has said about his writing. “In my view, it is a ministry with a calling.” His family, notably his grandmothers, influenced “The Covenant of Water,” he said during a 2023 talk at the Stanford University School of Medicine. The novel is set in Kerala, south India, and follows three generations of a family looking for answers about a secret. “Both my grandmothers were, in their own way, quietly heroic women,” he said during the talk. “They had real life tragedies that they somehow weathered and they went on because of their faith.” Verghese has received many accolades for his work, including the 2014 Heinz Award – which highlights individuals making contributions to the arts, the economy and the environment – the 2015 National Humanities Medal, and the Guggenheim Fellowship in 2023. “Dr. Verghese’s widely acclaimed writings touch the heart and inform the soul, giving people of all walks of life a true understanding of what it is to heal the whole person - not just physically, but emotionally,” Teresa Heinz, chair of the Heinz Family Foundation, said in a news release at the time. While Harvard students will have to wait to hear his speech, Verghese previously addressed graduating students at the Stanford School of Medicine, where he implored them to let their innate intelligence guide them through the future.
Indiana Fever star Caitlin Clark has been ruled out for at least two weeks after suffering a left quadriceps strain, the team announced Monday. Clark, the WNBA’s 2024 rookie of the year, will miss four games during that span. This includes two Commissioner’s Cup games – one of those coming June 7 on the road against the Chicago Sky and Angel Reese. The much-documented rivalry between the second-year WNBA stars began in college when Reese’s LSU beat Clark’s Iowa for the 2023 national championship, and continued when Clark won the rematch in 2024 in the Elite Eight in front of a television audience of 12.3 million. In their most recent meeting, which came May 17, the Fever beat the Sky 93-58, when Clark notably was called for a flagrant foul for hard contact on Reese. Both players have played down the rivalry, but their fan bases are often vociferous in their dislike of the opposing player. Clark, 23, has had an impressive start to her second year in the WNBA. The guard has averaged 19 points, 9.3 assists and six rebounds through the opening four games of the 2025 season. After reaching the playoffs last year, a revamped Indiana roster has championship aspirations this season. The Fever sit at 2-2 to start the season having suffered close losses to the Atlanta Dream and the New York Liberty. In addition to missing the June 7 contest against the Sky, Clark will also miss Wednesday’s game on the road against the Washington Mystics before being absent for two home games: one coming against the Connecticut Sun on Friday and then a Commissioner’s Cup game against the Mystics on June 3. The Fever said further updates on Clark will be available following re-evaluation. CNN’s Ben Morse and Jill Martin contributed to reporting.
It was Easter Sunday, and an IRS agent in Atlanta found herself driving her son to the hospital because he was having a severe allergic reaction. But her son’s well-being wasn’t the only issue that day: She also didn’t have health insurance. Her coverage hadn’t been restored yet, even though she had been reinstated to her job at the Internal Revenue Service, after getting fired in February as part of the Trump administration’s mass federal layoffs. “I went straight to the emergency room,” she told CNN. “I knew I didn’t have insurance, but I didn’t want to take the chance. At that point, you’re not thinking about health insurance.” It took two months — and countless calls to customer service — for her health coverage to come back online. Meanwhile, she was hit with a $3,300 bill for the Easter visit to the ER. She is one of several current and former federal employees who are struggling to get their workplace benefits, including health insurance and pension payments, amid President Donald Trump’s chaotic efforts to reduce the size of the US government, according to documents reviewed by CNN and interviews with more than half a dozen affected workers. It’s not clear how widespread these issues are. But federal workers who spoke to CNN, who have worked at three separate agencies, described a bureaucratic nightmare as they navigate depleted human resources offices and try to minimize the disruptions to their daily lives. CNN has reported on the many other ways Trump’s efforts to slash and revamp government agencies have prompted widespread confusion and uncertainty among federal workers. The hardest-hit group appears to be the thousands of “probationary” workers who were fired en masse in February, only to be reinstated weeks later by federal judges. These employees were glad to be reinstated, but the whiplash put their benefits in limbo. “There are no words to describe how difficult this has been,” said one Department of Education employee, whose family lost health insurance coverage for weeks. “There’s been no communication. No kindness. No compassion. It’s just devastating.” The White House didn’t comment for this story and referred CNN’s questions to some of the agencies involved. The Trump administration and its Department of Government Efficiency are shrinking the size of the federal workforce by shuttering agencies, firing recently hired workers, incentivizing early retirement, offering buyouts and initiating “reduction in force” layoffs. Along the way, as CNN has previously reported, the at-times indiscriminate cuts have left a trail of anxiety, fear and suffering. Many advocates for these fired federal employees have noted that a chief architect of these cuts, Office of Management and Budget Director Russell Vought, said in 2023 that “we want the bureaucrats to be traumatically affected.” The current Department of Education employee — who was fired with the probationary workers and then reinstated by a court order — said she still hasn’t been told why she couldn’t get her health care back faster. The employee, a mother of three, spoke to CNN anonymously. While her health insurance was cut off, her husband, who is recovering from cancer, couldn’t access appointments to maintain his health, which is critical for someone whose cancer is in remission, she said. During that period, her husband wasn’t able to have his regular port flushing appointment to check the device in his chest that delivers chemotherapy treatments. His port then got blocked, necessitating further medical attention. They also weren’t able to schedule his regular CT scans to determine whether his cancer had returned. She managed to get her insurance reinstated for her family through the Department of Education. But those weeks without any health insurance were riddled with anxiety and stress. And the future is unclear, especially as Trump tries to shut down the agency. “There is now so much unknown for our future. It is hard to feel secure. I feel like it could be ripped away at any time,” she said regarding her current health insurance coverage. She estimates that she spent multiple hours per day during their benefits outage making calls, filling out paperwork and reaching out to local representatives to seek answers. A Department of Education spokeswoman, Madi Biedermann, said the department has “been in regular communication with” employees affected by the cuts, including weekly in-person and virtual workshops where they can get answers from HR and information technology specialists. “While we acknowledge transitions are difficult, employees have been fully informed and supported during the changes at the Department,” Biedermann said in an email. CNN spoke to four current and former Internal Revenue Service probationary employees who also struggled to get their health insurance plans reactivated after being reinstated. An IRS employee in Indiana said she lost insurance for about three months, forcing her to delay crucial medical tests for her wife to determine whether lesions on her pancreas were potentially cancerous. She showed CNN call logs and emails indicating that she spent more than 25 hours working the phones, trying to get her health coverage back online. “The insurance company said I didn’t have insurance. The IRS said I did. I couldn’t get the sides to get together and talk on one another,” she said. “It was absolute utter chaos. I was on the phone every single day for two weeks. I even broke down in tears on the phone.” An IRS revenue officer from Massachusetts described not realizing that his insurance had been canceled weeks earlier, until an unpaid bill arrived after his annual physical. “If I get into an accident, that’s going to bankrupt me,” he told CNN. Other IRS employees said even short lapses in coverage left them fearing what’s next. “It felt like I had been forgotten about,” said IRS employee Osama Shahbaz, who had a brief lapse in coverage. “It felt a lot longer than two or three weeks. I was concerned, if something bad were to happen, I might not be covered and would have to pay a huge bill.” A spokesperson for Aetna told CNN that fewer than a dozen federal workers insured through the health insurance giant have had issues getting their coverage restored in a timely manner. BlueCross BlueShield’s Federal Employee Program resumes the health coverage of a federal worker the same day as it receives a notification of reinstatement from the Office of Personnel Management, said a spokesperson for the BlueCross BlueShield Association. There are also indications that the mass firings have created a cycle of sorts where key HR employees — who would typically help with processing workers compensation claims or addressing questions about pensions — have themselves been fired, creating a vacuum for getting help. Sheria Smith, a Department of Education employee who is the president of her federal workers union chapter in Dallas, was injured at the office in February. She tripped over loose cords on the floor and gashed her foot open, necessitating a podiatrist visit. She filed a workers’ compensation complaint on the day of the injury, but she said it still hasn’t been resolved. She was then terminated in March as part of the Trump administration’s sweeping “reduction in force” layoffs at the Department of Education — but continued to push for her workers’ comp to pay for her doctor’s visits. In May, months after her injury, a staffer from the Department of Education’s benefits office responded to one of her inquiries and said her request was being reviewed by a specific employee. Smith then informed them that this employee had been terminated. The benefits staffer wrote back, “Thank you for that information. Please let us know who to reassign it to,” according to messages obtained by CNN. Smith then responded, “I do not know. I’ve also been placed on administrative leave and do not know who remains.” John Reid III, a retired US Postal Service worker who lives in Locust Grove, Georgia, told CNN that he did not get his monthly federal pension benefit after the Social Security Administration erroneously declared him dead in April. Although Social Security has since corrected the record, Reid has yet to receive his May pension payment, which accounts for a sizable amount of his monthly income. He has called the Office of Personnel Management eight times to try to resolve the issue, including four times last week. But he was told that most of the staffers who would normally assist callers in his situation were gone due to buyouts and layoffs at the agency. The staffing shortage has left him wondering when he’ll get the funds, which he and his wife depend on. He said he also reached out to one of his senators to try to get help. “Retirees are being left hung out to dry,” said Reid, 73, who worked for USPS for more than three decades. “I am so disappointed with our government.” In response to CNN’s inquiries about the situation, OPM spokesperson McLaurine Pinover said on the morning of May 19 that the agency was trying to resolve the problem. “OPM’s Retirement Services office is actively working to address Mr. Reid’s issue,” Pinover said in an email. “There have been no changes to the constituent services process.” Later that day, Pinover told CNN that Reid’s situation has been addressed, but the payment could take up to seven days. An OPM representative told Reid on Friday that it could be another week before he receives his May payment, but that his June payment should arrive on time on the first of the month, he said. “At this juncture, I’ll believe it when I receive it,” he said.
As the World War II bomber Heaven Can Wait was hit by enemy fire off the Pacific island of New Guinea on March 11, 1944, the co-pilot managed a final salute to flyers in an adjacent plane before crashing into the water. All 11 men aboard were killed. Their remains, deep below the vast sea, were designated as non-recoverable. Yet four crew members’ remains are beginning to return to their hometowns after a remarkable investigation by family members and a recovery mission involving elite Navy divers who descended 200 feet (61 meters) in a pressurized bell to reach the sea floor. Staff Sgt. Eugene Darrigan, the radio operator was buried with military honors and community support on Saturday in his hometown of Wappingers Falls, New York, more than eight decades after leaving behind his wife and baby son. The bombardier, 2nd Lt. Thomas Kelly, was to be buried Monday in Livermore, California, where he grew up in a ranching family. The remains of the pilot, 1st Lt. Herbert Tennyson, and navigator, 2nd Lt. Donald Sheppick, will be interred in the coming months. The ceremonies are happening 12 years after one of Kelly’s relatives, Scott Althaus, set out to solve the mystery of where exactly the plane went down. “I’m just so grateful,” he told The Associated Press. “It’s been an impossible journey — just should never have been able to get to this day. And here we are, 81 years later.” The Army Air Forces plane nicknamed Heaven Can Wait was a B-24 with a cartoon pin-up angel painted on its nose and a crew of 11 on its final flight. They were on a mission to bomb Japanese targets when the plane was shot down. Other flyers on the mission were not able to spot survivors. Their wives, parents and siblings were of a generation that tended to be tight-lipped in their grief. But the men were sorely missed. Sheppick, 26, and Tennyson, 24, each left behind pregnant wives who would sometimes write them two or three letters a day. Darrigan, 26, also was married, and had been able to attend his son’s baptism while on leave. A photo shows him in uniform, smiling as he holds the boy. Darrigan’s wife, Florence, remarried but quietly held on to photos of her late husband, as well as a telegram informing her of his death. Tennyson’s wife, Jean, lived until age 96 and never remarried. “She never stopped believing that he was going to come home,” said her grandson, Scott Jefferson. As Memorial Day approached twelve years ago, Althaus asked his mother for names of relatives who died in World War II. Althaus, a political science and communications professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, became curious while researching World War II casualties for work. His mother gave him the name of her cousin Thomas Kelly, who was 21 years old when he was reported missing in action. Althaus recalled that as a boy, he visited Kelly’s memorial stone, which has a bomber engraved on it. He began reading up on the lost plane. “It was a mystery that I discovered really mattered to my extended family,” he said. With help from other relatives, he analyzed historical documents, photos and eyewitness recollections. They weighed sometimes conflicting accounts of where the plane went down. After a four-year investigation, Althaus wrote a report concluding that the bomber likely crashed off of Awar Point in what is now Papua New Guinea The report was shared with Project Recover, a nonprofit committed to finding and repatriating missing American service members and a partner of the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, or DPAA. A team from Project Recover, led by researchers from Scripps Institution of Oceanography, located the debris field in 2017 after searching nearly 10 square miles (27 square kilometers) of seafloor. The DPAA launched its deepest ever underwater recovery mission in 2023. A Navy dive team recovered dog tags, including Darrigan’s partially corroded tag with his the name of his wife, Florence, as an emergency contact. Kelly’s ring was recovered. The stone was gone, but the word BOMBARDIER was still legible. And they recovered remains that underwent DNA testing. Last September, the military officially accounted for Darrigan, Kelly, Sheppick and Tennyson. With seven men who were on the plane still unaccounted for, a future DPAA mission to the site is possible. More than 200 people honored Darrigan on Saturday in Wappingers Falls, some waving flags from the sidewalk during the procession to the church, others saluting him at a graveside ceremony under cloudy skies. “After 80 years, this great soldier has come home to rest,” Darrigan’s great niece, Susan Pineiro, told mourners at his graveside. Darrigan’s son died in 2020, but his grandson Eric Schindler attended. Darrigan’s 85-year-old niece, Virginia Pineiro, solemnly accepted the folded flag. This American soldier witnessed the Nazi surrender. 80 years later, he’s still happy to be home Kelly’s remains arrived in the Bay Area on Friday. He was to be buried Monday at his family’s cemetery plot, right by the marker with the bomber etched on it. A procession of Veterans of Foreign Wars motorcyclists will pass by Kelly’s old home and high school before he is interred. “I think it’s very unlikely that Tom Kelly’s memory is going to fade soon,” said Althaus, now a volunteer with Project Recover. Sheppick will be buried in the months ahead near his parents in a cemetery in Coal Center, Pennsylvania. His niece, Deborah Wineland, said she thinks her late father, Sheppick’s younger brother, would have wanted it that way. The son Sheppick never met died of cancer while in high school. Tennyson will be interred on June 27 in Wichita, Kansas. He’ll be buried beside his wife, Jean, who died in 2017, just months before the wreckage was located. “I think because she never stopped believing that he was coming back to her, that it’s only fitting she be proven right,” Jefferson said.
President Donald Trump honored fallen service members at Arlington National Cemetery on Memorial Day hours after blasting his political opponents and perceived enemies as “scum” in a social media post marking the solemn day. Largely sticking to scripted remarks, Trump — who also laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier — paid tribute to veterans “who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation,” while acknowledging “an unfillable void and an unbreakable silence in the lives of all who loved them.” That tone stood in stark contrast to his message on Truth Social earlier Monday morning, when he criticized members of the federal judiciary as “USA hating” and “monsters,” and his predecessor as “incompetent.” In the all-caps message, posted just before 7 a.m. ET, the president wished a “Happy Memorial Day to all, including the scum that spent the last four years trying to destroy our country through warped radical left minds,” which he said were responsible for illegal immigration into the country under former President Joe Biden. Trump went on to suggest that 21 million people entered the US illegally under the previous administration — a figure not borne out by US Customs and Border Protection data, as previously reported by CNN. He blamed “an incompetent president” for the influx of migrants and “judges who are on a mission to keep murderers, drug dealers, rapists, gang members, and released prisoners from all over the world, in our country so they can rob, murder, and rape again,” for stymying his deportation agenda, claiming criminal migrants are “protected by these USA hating judges who suffer from an ideology that is sick, and very dangerous for our country.” In the United States, Memorial Day honors those who died while serving in the armed forces; due to the holiday’s grave significance, it’s largely considered taboo to wish someone a “Happy Memorial Day.” During his speech at Arlington National Cemetery, Trump seemed to diverge from his scripted remarks at two points to tout his achievements or slam Biden. In a portion of his speech dedicated to the Minutemen of the Revolutionary War, Trump heralded “the most noble Republic ever to exist,” going on to add: “A republic that I am fixing after a long and hard four years – that was a hard four years we went through. Who would let that happen?” “People pouring through our borders, unchecked. People doing things that are indescribable – and not for today to discuss – but the republic that is now doing so very well.” Later in the speech, Trump again seemed to catch himself as he discussed the nation’s upcoming 250th anniversary, which he joked he would’ve missed as president had his second term followed the 2020 election. “In some ways, I’m glad I missed that second term where it was, because I wouldn’t be your president for that,” he said. “Most important of all, in addition, we have the World Cup and we have the Olympics. Can you imagine [if] I missed that four years? And now look what I have. I have everything – amazing the way things work out. God did that, I believe that too.” During his first term, Trump largely kept to prepared speeches when delivering his Memorial Day remarks. He participated in the ceremony at Arlington for the first three years of his presidency before it moved to Fort McHenry in Baltimore during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. This year’s Memorial Day message from Trump came two days after he gave a politically inflected commencement address at the US Military Academy at West Point, where he combined traditional advice to graduates with more overtly partisan themes. In the speech, Trump touted his election victory last year and veered into litigating some of his grievances about investigations into him. He wore a red “Make America Great Again” hat during the speech. He also told the graduating cadets they would be the first to serve in the “golden age” of the military, touting at length his efforts to rid the military of diversity initiatives and criticizing his predecessors for entering what he deemed to be wars of choice. “The job of the US armed forces is not to host drag shows, to transform foreign cultures (and) spread democracy to everybody around the world at the point of a gun,” he said. “The military’s job is to dominate any foe and annihilate any threat to America, anywhere, anytime and any place.” In his West Point speech, Trump also offered somewhat off-key advice about not marrying “trophy wives,” citing as an example a friend who moved to Monte Carlo with a younger bride, only to later suffer financially when he lost his “momentum.” Trump offered the story as a point of guidance to graduates. Trump has previously drawn criticism for inserting political messages into traditionally apolitical occasions and settings. During his first term, he took to then-social media platform Twitter in 2018 to wish Americans a “Happy Memorial Day!” writing, “Those who died for our great country would be very happy and proud at how well our country is doing today,” highlighting his own policy wins instead of the sacrifice made by America’s armed services. And in August 2024, the US Army issued a rare rebuke after Trump’s campaign recorded a video while visiting the Arlington National Cemetery gravesites of some of the service members killed during the US’ chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. In a statement, the Army wrote that Trump and his staff “were made aware of federal laws, Army regulations, and DoD policies, which clearly prohibit political activities on cemetery grounds.” At the time, the Trump campaign pointed to a statement from the Gold Star families he accompanied, saying they gave his videographer and photographer permission to be there, although some imagery from the visit showed the graves of other US service members whose families did not give permission. The president originally posted a different version of Monday’s Memorial Day post but appears to have deleted the original version (which had some minor grammatical errors) and reposted it again. This story and headline have been updated with additional developments.
Ten people were shot and at least one other person was injured when a holiday weekend gathering at a charter boat in a South Carolina coastal community turned violent, according to police. Some of those injured in the shooting in Little River on Sunday were in critical condition as of Monday morning, Horry County police said, without specifying how many. Detectives were trying to determine who was responsible for the shooting, police said; no names were released and no arrests were immediately announced. The shooting stemmed from an altercation during a private Memorial Day weekend gathering on a charter boat in Little River, a community of about 11,000 people situated along the Intracoastal Waterway near the North Carolina state line, police said. Police didn’t say whether the shooting happened on the boat. The vessel was docked at the time of the incident, Horry County spokesperson Mikayla Moskov said. Details about what led to the altercation weren’t immediately available. Eleven people were taken to hospitals, police said. Besides the 10 who were shot, one person “reported an unknown non-gunfire-related injury,” police said. According to The Associated Press, a flyer online advertised a party Sunday night with a DJ on a three-hour cruise ending at 9 p.m. A woman who answered a phone number on the flyer early Monday said she was distraught seeing her friends get shot, but then said she didn’t want to talk further and hung up, according to the AP. Someone who answered the phone at the company that owns the boat said he didn’t want to talk to a reporter, according to the AP. A North Myrtle Beach Police officer suffered a self-inflicted leg injury while responding to the Little River shooting after accidentally discharging his service weapon, the department’s public information officer Patrick Wilkinson told CNN. The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is investigating the incident. The officer was transported to the hospital Sunday night and remains in stable condition as of Monday afternoon, Wilkinson said. Little River is roughly 20 miles northeast of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. This is a developing story and will be updated.
The Environmental Protection Agency is drafting a proposed regulation that would end all federal limits on planet-warming pollution generated by coal and gas-fired power plants, according to documents cited by the New York Times. The proposed rule, which the agency said would be published once it has completed interagency review, would undo decades of progress on limiting US climate pollution and could drive up energy prices if expensive coal plants remain on the grid longer as a result. At a minimum, it is a sharp reversal from the Biden administration’s policies to lower pollution from power plants and make the air around them healthier to breathe. The Biden EPA finalized new rules last year that would have compelled coal and new natural gas power plants to either cut or capture 90% of their climate pollution by 2032. In a statement, an EPA spokesperson referenced a 2022 Supreme Court decision striking down the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and said there were “concerns” that the Biden administration’s “replacement for that rule is similarly overreaching and an attempt to shut down affordable and reliable electricity generation in the United States.” “As part of this reconsideration, EPA is developing a proposed rule,” the spokesperson added. “The proposal will be published once it has completed interagency review and been signed by the (EPA) Administrator.” The documents the New York Times acquired argue the US share of global power plant pollution has fallen, and that even if US power plants cut all of their emissions and pollution, it would not “meaningfully” improve public health in the US — a claim likely to be fiercely challenged by public health researchers and organizations. Power plants are the second-biggest emitters of planet-warming pollution in the US, making up around a quarter of the country’s climate pollution. US power plants contribute 3% of total global climate pollution. The proposed rule follows a March announcement from the EPA that it would overturn more than a dozen Biden-era air pollution and climate rules. Trump’s EPA announced in March it was preparing to reconsider and strike down a consequential scientific finding on the dangers of climate pollution that has served as the basis behind federal regulations to curb them. Dismissing the precedent would strip the EPA’s authority to manage the pollution that causes global warming. “President Trump promised to kill the Clean Power Plan in his first term, and we continue to build on that progress now,” EPA administrator Lee Zeldin said in a statement. Climate groups blasted the move. “People will pay the price,” said Julie McNamara, associate policy director for the Union of Concerned Scientists’ climate and energy program, in a statement. “The Trump administration may attempt to illegally, impossibly, reprehensibly deny reality, but the record for climate action is long and the case for climate action is unequivocal. The facts will win out.”
French President Emmanuel Macron has dismissed a viral video showing his wife Brigitte pushing his face away as they disembarked from a plane in Vietnam for the first leg of a Southeast Asia tour. Speaking to reporters in Hanoi on Monday, Macron addressed the clip directly, pushing back against the speculation it sparked. “There’s a video showing me joking and teasing my wife and somehow that becomes a sort of geo-planetary catastrophe, with people even coming up with theories to explain it,” the president said. Macron acknowledged the footage was genuine but criticized how it had been weaponized. “The videos are all real, and yes, sometimes people tamper with them, but people are attributing all kinds of nonsense to them.” The short clip shows the aircraft door opening with Macron appearing in the doorway. Seconds later, both of Brigitte Macron’s hands reach out from the side and press against the president’s face in what looks like a sudden shove. Macron appears momentarily surprised but quickly regains his composure and waves to the press outside. As the couple descend the steps, Macron offers Brigitte his arm, which she does not take, opting instead to hold the railing. The Élysée initially denied the incident on the plane, before later moving to downplay its significance. The couple were merely bickering, a source close to the president told CNN affiliate BFM TV. It was a “moment of togetherness,” according to an Élysée source. “It was a moment when the president and his wife were unwinding one last time before the trip began, playfully teasing each other,” the source told CNN Monday. “No more was needed to feed the mills of the conspiracy theorists,” the source added, saying pro-Russian trolls were quick to spin the moment into controversy. Macron has been at the forefront of efforts to agree a coordinated European response to defending Ukraine following Russia’s full-scale invasion in 2022. The incident in Hanoi comes as Macron faces another swirl of online disinformation. Earlier this month the Élysée dismissed as “fake news” a viral claim - amplified by Kremlin officials - that the French president was using cocaine aboard a train to Kyiv alongside German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer. The rumor, traced back to pro-Russian accounts, falsely claimed a crumpled tissue Macron picked up was a cocaine bag. The Élysée posted a rebuttal online with the caption: “This is a tissue. For blowing your nose… When European unity becomes inconvenient, disinformation makes a simple tissue look like drugs.” The Kremlin’s foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova fueled the claim, suggesting the scene was part of a wider European dysfunction. French officials condemned the campaign as part of ongoing efforts by Moscow to weaken Western unity on Ukraine and manipulate peace discussions through false narratives and social media manipulation.
In early April, President Donald Trump gathered dozens of hard-hat-clad coal miners around him in the White House East Room. He joked about arm-wrestling them and announced he was signing executive orders to boost coal production, “bringing back an industry that was abandoned,” and to “put the miners back to work.” Trump said he calls it “beautiful, clean” coal. “I tell my people never use the word ‘coal’ unless you put ‘beautiful, clean’ before it.” That same day, the Trump administration paused implementation of a rule that would help protect coal miners from an aggressive form of black lung disease. Enforcement of the new protections is officially halted until at least mid-August, according to a federal announcement that came a few days after a federal court agreed to put enforcement on hold to hear an industry challenge. But even if the rule takes full force after the delay, the federal agency tasked with enforcing it in Appalachia and elsewhere may not be up to the task after sweeping layoffs and office closures. Deaths from black lung — a chronic condition caused by inhaling coal dust — had been in decline since the introduction of federal regulations over a half-century ago. But in recent decades, cases have risen precipitously. By 2018, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that the lungs of about 1 in 5 coal miners in central Appalachia showed evidence of black lung. It is being diagnosed in younger miners. And the deadliest form, progressive massive fibrosis, has increased tenfold among long-term miners. Silica is the primary culprit. Exposure to it has increased since mining operations began cutting through more sandstone to reach deeper coal deposits. The stone breaks into sharp particles that, when airborne, can become trapped in lung tissue and cause a debilitating, sometimes fatal condition. The new rule was set to take effect in April, cutting the allowable level of silica dust in the air inside mines by half — to the limit already in place for other industries — and set stricter guidelines for enforcement. Years in the making, advocates for miners heralded the new standards as a breakthrough. “It is unconscionable that our nation’s miners have worked without adequate protection from silica dust despite it being a known health hazard for decades,” acting Labor Secretary Julie Su said when the rule was announced last spring under the Biden administration. The rule pause came on top of another blow to mine safety oversight. In March, the Department of Government Efficiency, created by a Trump executive order, announced it would end leases for as many as three dozen field offices of the Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration, with the future of those employees undetermined. That agency is responsible for enforcing mining safety laws. Then in April, two-thirds — nearly 900 — of the workers at the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, an agency within the Department of Health and Human Services, were fired. As a result, NIOSH’s Coal Workers’ Health Surveillance Program, which offered miners free screenings from a mobile clinic, ceased operations. An announcement by MSHA of the silica rule delay cited the “unforeseen NIOSH restructuring and other technical reasons” as catalysts for the pause but didn’t mention the federal court decision in the case seeking to rescind the rule. Separately, on May 7, attorney Sam Petsonk filed a class-action lawsuit against Health and Human Services and its head, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., to reinstate the program. His client in the case, Harry Wiley, a West Virginia coal miner, was diagnosed with an early stage of black lung and applied to NIOSH for a transfer to an environment with less dust exposure but never received a response. He continues to work underground. On May 13, U.S. District Judge Irene Berger issued a preliminary injunction to reinstate the surveillance program employees. The next day, Kennedy said the administration would reverse the firings of 328 NIOSH employees. That day, they were back at work. “Remaining in a dusty job may reduce the years in which Mr. Wiley can walk and breathe unassisted, in addition to hastening his death,” Berger wrote. “It is difficult to imagine a clearer case of irreparable harm.” MSHA officials declined to respond to specific questions about the silica rule or plans to implement and enforce it, citing the ongoing litigation. In an emailed statement, Labor Department spokesperson Courtney Parella said, “The Mine Safety and Health Administration is confident it can enforce all regulations under its purview. MSHA inspectors continue to conduct legally required inspections and remain focused on MSHA’s core mission to prevent death, illness, and injury from mining and promote safe and healthful workplaces for U.S. miners.” Wes Addington is quick to say a career in the mines isn’t necessarily a death sentence. He comes from generations of miners. One of his great-grandfathers worked 48 years underground and died at 88. But Addington also said protecting the safety and health of miners requires diligence. He’s executive director of the Appalachian Citizens’ Law Center, a Whitesburg, Kentucky, nonprofit that represents and advocates for miners and their families. A study the center conducted found that staffers at the MSHA offices scheduled to close performed almost 17,000 health and safety inspections from January 2024 through February 2025. Addington said NIOSH provided the data to document worsening conditions over the past few decades. Addington’s organization has advocated for the new silica rule for 17 years. “We didn’t think it was perfect,” he said. He would have preferred lower exposure limits and more stringent monitoring requirements. “But, as it was, it was going to save lives.” The cuts to the agency, Addington said, could affect every American worker who might be exposed to harmful elements in the workplace. NIOSH approves respirators prescribed by Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations. With fewer inspectors, miners are “more likely to get hurt on the job and those injuries could be fatal,” he said. “And if you’re a miner that’s lucky enough to navigate that gantlet and make it through a 20-, 25-year career,” Addington said, “the likelihood that you develop disabling lung disease that ultimately kills you at an early age is much increased.” The black lung clinic at Stone Mountain Health Services in southwestern Virginia has diagnosed 75 new cases of progressive massive fibrosis in the past year, according to its medical director, Drew Harris. “People are dying from a dust-related disease that’s 100% preventable, and we’re not using all the things we could use to help prevent their disease and save their lives,” Harris said. “It’s just all very disheartening.” He believes it would be a mistake for Kennedy to reorganize NIOSH as he has proposed, shifting the surveillance program team’s responsibilities to other employees. “It’s a very unique expertise,” Harris said. The agency would be “losing the people that know how to do this well and that have been doing this for decades.” Rex Fields first went to work in the mines in 1967, a year before an explosion killed 78 miners near the small town of Farmington, West Virginia. His wife, Tilda Fields, was aware of the hazards her husband would encounter — the safety issues, the long-term health concerns. Her dad died of black lung when she was 7. But it meant a well-paying job in a region that has forever offered precious few. Rex, 77, now lives with an advanced stage of black lung disease. He’s still able to mow his lawn but is easily winded when walking uphill. It took him several weeks and two rounds of antibiotics to recover from a bout with bronchitis in March. Throughout his career, Rex advocated for his fellow miners: He stepped in when he saw someone mistreated; he once tried, unsuccessfully, to help a unionization effort. For these efforts, he said, “I got transferred from the day shift to the third shift a time or two.” Today, the Fieldses lobby on behalf of miners and share information about occupational dangers. Tilda organized a support group for families and widows. She worries about the next generation. Two of the Fieldses’ sons also went into mining. “People in the mountains here, we learn to make do,” Tilda said. “But you want better. You want better for your kids than what we had, and you surely want their safety.” KFF Health News is a national newsroom that produces in-depth journalism about health issues and is one of the core operating programs at KFF — the independent source for health policy research, polling, and journalism.
Editor’s note: Sign up for CNN’s Sleep, But Better newsletter series. Our seven-part guide has helpful hints to achieve better sleep. When jolted awake by the blare of an alarm clock, it’s tempting to reach for the snooze button to catch a bit more shut-eye. In my case, “just five more minutes” is practically a morning mantra. And what’s the harm? There’s increasing debate about your snoozing habit, and whether or not it’s silently sabotaging your morning. On the “stop snoozing” side of the research, sleep scientist Dr. Rebecca Robbins suggests the snooze alarm may actually cost us sleep. What you eat can hurt your sleep. What to eat instead “That first alarm may interrupt vital stages of sleep, and anything that you might be able to get after hitting the snooze alarm is probably going to be low quality and fragmented sleep,” said Robbins, an associate scientist for the Division of Sleep and Circadian Disorders at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. The average snoozer takes an extra 11 minutes after their first alarm, according to a new study coauthored by Robbins that used data from the sleep-tracking app SleepCycle. That adds up to about one night’s worth of sleep per month spent snoozing. As we sleep, the brain cycles through different stages of neurological activity and the second half of the night is dominated by rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, when most of our dreaming is thought to take place. It’s an important sleep stage for our cognitive function and memory consolidation, said Robbins, who is also an assistant professor of medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. “When you press the snooze button, especially for just a few minutes at a time, you’re not likely to return to that REM stage,” Robbins said. But for a different take, there are sleep experts like Dr. Justin Fiala, a pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine physician at Northwestern Medicine Canning Thoracic Institute. There isn’t consensus on whether this lighter sleep achieved during a snooze session always does more harm than good, said Fiala, who is also an assistant professor at Northwestern Medicine. On one hand, losing out on quality sleep instead of just waking up later may increase the risk of cognitive impairment and lower one’s mood. “Certainly, if you’re feeling worse off (and) more tired from the snooze alarm, I would recommend going back to waking up cold turkey without it,” said Fiala, who also runs the CommunityHealth Chicago sleep clinic. On the other hand, those with a certain chronotype — a natural disposition determined by factors such as age and genetics — may benefit from the habit, Fiala said, referencing a 2023 study which found night owls tend to rely on their snooze button more. “If your chronotype is nocturnal, you’re a night owl, but your work schedule requires you to be up at 5 a.m., that increases the dissonance between what your body is naturally inclined to do,” Fiala said. For these night owls, the brief period of light sleep induced by the snooze button may actually help them transition from deeper stages of sleep interrupted by the first alarm into wakefulness, he said, adding that more research should be done to fully understand this effect and its limitations. Regardless of one’s chronotype, this distinction of who gets the most out of snoozing can also help inform how to get the most out of snoozing. Most sleep experts emphasize adults get the recommended 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night for good health and emotional well-being. Sleeping enough can also reduce feelings of tiredness upon waking, but the consistency of your sleep timing is just as important as duration, said Kimberly Honn, an associate professor of psychology at Washington State University Spokane. At deep stages of sleep, electric pulses of the brain reach a highly rhythmic pattern different from our more erratic, awakened state, she explained. Trying to wake up during these stages cuts important brain maintenance processes short and can lead one to experience the foggy effects of sleep inertia, which can last for several minutes or even hours after waking up. When the body is accustomed to a regular sleep schedule, it may reduce the experience of sleep inertia upon waking, Honn said. The body can grow accustomed to moving through each sleep stage at similar times, ensuring sleep cycles are completed before waking and eventually allowing you to fall asleep faster. “In the perfect world, we would not be relying on an alarm clock at all,” Robbins said. “We would be able to fall asleep and wake up naturally and have energy throughout the day.” Fiala said he generally recommends varying bedtimes by no more than 30 minutes per night, even on weekends. If you have to switch schedules, he says you should change it incrementally over time. It’s possible people who use the snooze button less simply don’t have the luxury to sleep past their alarm, Robbins suggested. Inflexible work schedules could require first responders to start their shift promptly, or parents may have to rally their children out the door and toward the school bus. For this reason, Robbins recommends those trying to ditch a snoozing habit introduce more time constraints into their morning routine by setting the first alarm as late as possible. “Ask yourself: Is there anything in that morning routine that you could maybe do without? Or maybe you could find a way to do it faster?” Robbins said. Snoozing could also mean you’re losing out on time that could be used for adding wakefulness-promoting habits into your morning routine. The heaviest snoozers tracked in Robbins’ study used around 22 to 27 minutes resting after the first alarm — time that could be used for stretching, journaling or cooking a nutritious breakfast, Robbins suggested. “We talk a lot about wind down routines and bedtime rituals. I think morning rituals are also really lovely to help you get excited about your day,” Robbins said. “It’s important to find something to look forward to, whether that’s a meeting in the morning, making yourself a cup of coffee, whatever helps motivate you (and) gets you out of bed.” Timing your alarm to the sunrise and allowing natural light to come through your windows in the morning can also help signal your body to wake up, Honn said.
President Donald Trump on Monday again trained his ire on Harvard University, accusing the school of “judge shopping” during its legal battle with the administration and threatening to cut off $3 billion in federal grant funding over the university’s handling of anti-Israel protests. “I am considering taking Three Billion Dollars of Grant Money away from a very antisemitic Harvard, and giving it to TRADE SCHOOLS all across our land,” Trump wrote on social media. “What a great investment that would be for the USA, and so badly needed!!!” Trump’s newest threats come as Harvard begins its spring commencement week in the shadow of a months-long feud between the Ivy League school and the Trump administration over antisemitism, federal funding and the First Amendment. In its latest move, the Trump administration banned Harvard University’s ability to enroll international students – a decision swiftly halted by a federal judge hours after the nation’s oldest and wealthiest university filed suit. The president has also threatened to revoke Harvard’s tax-exempt status. Now, the university’s future ability to enroll international students – which make up about 27% of the student body – will depend on how the case plays out in court, with the litigation adding to the piling docket of legal battles for the administration. A hearing in the case is expected to take place Tuesday. Harvard also sued Trump last month over the administration’s freezing of $2.2 billion in federal funding after the university wouldn’t agree to policy changes demanded by the White House. That case, along with the lawsuit over international students, has been assigned to US District Court Judge Allison Dale Burroughs. This isn’t Burroughs’ first high-profile case involving Harvard University. As a federal judge in 2019, she upheld the Ivy League’s admissions process in an affirmative action case – a decision the US Supreme Court later overturned. She ruled that while Harvard’s admissions process was “not perfect,” she would not “dismantle a very fine admissions program that passes constitutional muster, solely because it could do better.” As a federal district judge, she’s also put guardrails on the Trump administration before in cases related to his 2017 travel ban targeting predominantly Muslim countries, international students during the coronavirus pandemic, and the Department of Energy’s recent cuts to federal research funding. In his Monday post, Trump also took aim at the bipartisan practice of “judge shopping,” where plaintiffs file cases outside their obvious court of jurisdiction in an effort to be assigned a judge who may have a more favorable review of the litigation compared to a random assignment. Members of both parties have used the practice to further their policy goals. “The best thing Harvard has going for it is that they have shopped around and found the absolute best Judge (for them!) - But have no fear, the Government will, in the end, WIN!” Trump wrote Monday. CNN has reached out to Harvard for comment. But Harvard, a Massachusetts-based school, would be expected to bring any lawsuits in Boston’s federal court. Still, the district has no Trump appointees, and the federal appellate court overseeing New England is perceived as a tough venue for the president’s more hardline, politically sensitive cases. This week, Trump also sent shockwaves through campus when he demanded the “names and countries” of the thousands of international students at Harvard University. “We are still waiting for the Foreign Student Lists from Harvard so that we can determine, after a ridiculous expenditure of BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, how many radicalized lunatics, troublemakers all, should not be let back into our Country. Harvard is very slow in the presentation of these documents, and probably for good reason!” Trump said on social media. Harvard already shares a list, as of October 2024, of the countries where its thousands of foreign students are from, with the most students coming from China, followed by Canada, India, South Korea and the United Kingdom. Harvard and the Trump administration are scheduled to meet in court on Thursday and argue their cases to Burroughs, who will decide whether to extend her decision to block the government’s actions by issuing a preliminary injunction. At the same time as the scheduled hearing, nearly 9,000 degree candidates are due to be celebrating commencement on Harvard’s campus, just 6 miles from the federal courthouse.
Christie Brinkley and Billy Joel have been the friendly exes and that is on display after his recently shared medical diagnosis. The “Piano Man” star has normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), a condition that causes pressure on the brain. Joel has canceled upcoming tour dates as a result. Over the weekend, Brinkley, who was married to Joel from 1985 to 1994, posted a video of one of the legendary singer’s performances, writing, “The whole Brinkley gang is sending you lots of love and good wishes for a full and speedy recovery.” The two are parents of daughter Alexa Ray Joel, 39. “I was looking for some cute photos of you and Alexa to send you, when I came across this clip from a recent concert,” she wrote in the caption. “It made me laugh ..but it also reminded me of all the joy you create, and all the sensational sing a longs you’ve lead… you turn an arena of strangers into a living room full of friends as we all sway in unison ..” “I’m sure I’m speaking for everyone in that room when I say please take good care of yourself, we all want you back in that white hot spotlight, you’re OUR piano man,” Brinkley added. “We’re always in the mood for your melodies And we all hope you’re feeling alright! We Love You, the kids, me and a whole bunch of full arenas!” Related video
Dr. Gupta explains Billy Joel’s neurological disorder diagnosis Joel, 76, posted on his social media last week that his condition “has been exacerbated by recent concert performances, leading to problems with hearing, vision, and balance.” “Under his doctor’s instructions, Billy is undergoing specific physical therapy and has been advised to refrain from performing during this recovery period,” the statement read. “Billy is thankful for the excellent care he is receiving and is fully committed to prioritizing his health.” According to Yale Medicine, what NPH is “very rare condition” that “occurs when a person has too much fluid in the brain.” Joel has been married to former competitive equestrian Alexis Roderick since 2015.
North Korea has arrested four people it claims bear responsibility for a launch accident last week that left leader Kim Jong Un’s newest warship lying on its side and partially submerged in a shipyard, state-run media has reported. The four people detained included Ri Hyong Son, vice department director of the Munitions Industry Department of the Party Central Committee, “who was greatly responsible for the occurrence of the serious accident,” a report from the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on Monday said. On Sunday, KCNA said three others had been detained: Kang Jong Chol, chief engineer of the Chongjin Shipyard where the accident occurred, Han Kyong Hak, head of the hull construction workshop, and Kim Yong Hak, deputy manager for administrative affairs. Kim last week called the botched launch, which he witnessed, “a criminal act” and vowed to punish those responsible. Last Wednesday’s accident resulted from a malfunction in the launch mechanism that caused the stern of the as-yet unnamed 5,000-ton destroyer to slide prematurely into the water, crushing parts of the hull and leaving the bow stranded on the shipway, KCNA reported on Thursday in a rare admission of fault from an otherwise highly secretive state. State media reported on Friday that the damage to the warship was less than North Korea’s initial estimate, saying there were no holes in the hull, although it was scratched along the starboard side. It also said “a certain amount of seawater flowed into the stern section.” Repairs could take about 10 days, the report said. Though analysts are skeptical. Kim had ordered the destroyer to be restored before the late June plenary session of the ruling Workers’ Party, calling the matter one of national honor. Satellite imagery shows most of the warship covered in blue tarps at the launch site, making it difficult for experts to determine the full extent of the damage it suffered. But analyst Carl Schuster, a former US Navy captain, said repair work could take up to six months, well beyond Kim’s June target. “If the hull damage extends across the ship’s port side covered by the tarp, then we are looking at four to six months of repair work,” he said. Repairs could be complicated depending on the amount of sea water that entered the warship, according to Schuster. The interior of the ship would need to be thoroughly flushed with fresh water and then dried to prevent “salt crust” from forming on metal surfaces, he said. “If it gets into joints and things, then it becomes destructive,” Schuster said. But the flushing work cannot begin until the ship is righted and any holes in the hull are patched, he said. KCNA reported Monday that “the work for completely restoring the balance of the warship is being actively conducted,” but it did not give a timeline. Satellite images from Maxar Technologies taken Sunday and supplied to CNN showed the ship still on its side, still mostly covered in blue tarps as smaller boats swarmed around it. South Korean lawmaker and defense analyst Yu Yong-weon said last week that rushing the launch of the ship likely led to the problems encountered on Wednesday and warned hasty repairs could cause more problems down the line. Schuster echoed that thinking, saying optics may be more important than military value to the Kim regime. “If Kim Jong Un says, ‘I want that ship fitted out in six months,’ they’ll take shortcuts to make it happen. And usually when you do that you wind up with a ship that’s not, shall we say optimal for operations? But it meets the propaganda criteria.” CNN’s Yoonjung Seo and Gawon Bae contributed to this report.
US special envoy Steve Witkoff has told CNN that a ceasefire-hostage deal for Gaza is currently on the table with a pathway to end the war, and urged Hamas to accept it. The proposal would see the release of half of the living hostages and half of those who have died in exchange for a temporary ceasefire before negotiations begin for a comprehensive agreement to end the war. He declined to specify how long that temporary truce would last, which has been a key issue in the negotiations. “Israel will agree to a temporary ceasefire/hostage deal that would see half of the living and half of the deceased return and lead to substantive negotiations to find a path to a permanent ceasefire, which I have agreed to preside over,” Witkoff told CNN on Monday. “That deal is on the table. Hamas should take it.” He said Hamas has yet to accept the deal. Reuters reported earlier on Monday that Hamas had agreed to a proposal that would see the release of 10 hostages in two groups in exchange for a 70-day truce. Witkoff told CNN that was not his proposal. “What I have seen is completely unacceptable,” Witkoff said, referring to the report. Meanwhile, a Palestinian official close to the negotiations also told CNN that Hamas has agreed to Witkoff’s proposal, but did not provide additional details about what the deal entailed. A US official told CNN Witkoff has not met directly with Hamas. According to a source familiar with the matter, Palestinian-American businessman Bishara Bahbah met with Hamas in Doha about the proposal. Bahbah, who led the group “Arab Americans for Trump” during the 2024 presidential campaign, has been working on behalf of the administration. Witkoff’s comments to CNN mark the first time he has said he would preside over negotiations for an end to the war during the temporary ceasefire. Hamas has long sought assurances that Israel seriously engages in negotiations to end the war if it agrees to another temporary ceasefire, after Israel refused to do so during the last truce. Witkoff’s involvement in negotiating a permanent ceasefire appears to be aimed at providing Hamas with assurances from Washington that Israel will engage in such negotiations in the future. CNN has reached out to the Israeli government for comment. In a video message posted to social media on Monday night, Netanyahu said getting the hostages released is a top priority. “I very much hope we’ll have something to announce on that front,” he said. “And if not today, then tomorrow – we are not giving up.” Two Israeli officials later clarified that there was “no progress” in the negotiations for a ceasefire and hostage release deal and that “Hamas continued to hold firm in its refusal.” “The prime minister meant that a breakthrough could happen only if Hamas aligns with the Israeli position,” one of the officials said. The proposal comes at a crucial point in the war, as the Israeli military issued evacuation orders for most of southern Gaza ahead of what its spokesperson said would be an “unprecedented attack” on the territory. The order covers the city of Khan Younis and much of the surrounding area, according to Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Arabic language spokesperson Avichay Adree. He described the Khan Younis governorate as a “dangerous fighting zone that has been warned several times.” The evacuation zone goes all the way south to the Gaza-Egypt border where Israeli forces have occupied the Philadelphi Corridor, a 14-kilometer (8-mile) strip along the frontier. It appears to include the entirety of Khan Younis, a densely packed city with many displaced Palestinians. The order instructs Palestinians to move to the Al-Mawasi area, a narrow strip of land along the Mediterranean Sea. Earlier Monday, the IDF said three rockets were fired from southern Gaza, two of which landed within the Gazan territory and one of which was intercepted. The order, which also cover parts of eastern Gaza, comes after the military laid out its strategy to take control of the territory, where it has been fighting a war since October 2023 to eradicate Hamas following the militant group’s attack on Israel. An Israeli military official told CNN on Monday that Israel plans to occupy 75% of Gaza within two months as part of its new offensive. If carried out, the plan would force more than two million Palestinians into a quarter of the coastal enclave, surrounded on nearly all sides by Israeli forces. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said this month the entire population would be displaced to southern Gaza. The IDF now has five divisions operating in Gaza, the military said Friday, totaling tens of thousands of troops. On a visit to troops in Khan Younis Sunday, IDF Chief of Staff Eyal Zamir said, “You are fighting on the central front of the state of Israel. This is a prolonged, multi-arena war.” On Monday, Hamas’ Government Media Office said Israel already “effectively” controls 77% of Gaza through “heavy firepower that prevents Palestinian civilians from accessing their homes, areas, lands, and properties, or through oppressive forced evacuation policies.” Israel is under growing international pressure – including from long standing allies – over its decision to expand the war and, in the words of one Israeli minister, “conquer” the territory. The United Kingdom has paused trade talks and sanctioned extremist settlers in the West Bank. Canada and France have threatened sanctions. And the European Union – Israel’s biggest trade partner – is reviewing its landmark Association Agreement with the country. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz told German public broadcaster ARD on Monday that the actions of the Israeli military in Gaza “can no longer be justified on the grounds of a fight against Hamas terrorism.” US Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem, however, reiterated US support for Israel on Sunday. She met with Netanyahu and expressed appreciation for the prime minister’s conduct of the war, according to a statement from the Israeli Government Press Office. CNN’s Dana Karni, Lauren Izso and Kylie Atwood contributed to this report.
“I’ve always had a very good relationship with Vladimir Putin of Russia, but something has happened to him,” observed US President Donald Trump, reacting to the intensive Russian drone and missile strikes on Ukraine over the weekend. In fact, the Kremlin leader seems pretty much unchanged, despite the urgings of the White House, merely continuing his policy of grinding war in Ukraine, in which aerial assaults have become an all-too-regular feature. The real question is whether Trump has changed, or at least if his attitude toward Putin has started to shift amid what looks like an increasingly futile US effort to forge peace in Ukraine, something Trump bragged he could do – let’s not forget – in short order. Emmanuel Macron, the French president, certainly thinks a mental corner has been turned, telling reporters in Vietnam that Trump’s latest rebuke of his Russian counterpart as “absolutely CRAZY” means the US president “realizes” that Putin has “lied” on the war in Ukraine, adding that he hopes Trump’s words will “translate into action.” But the record suggests otherwise. This is the sixth time this term that Trump, who consistently says he has a strong relationship with Putin, has publicly expressed impatience or downright annoyance with the Kremlin boss. Back in March, Trump revealed he was “pissed off” with Putin for refusing to agree to a 30-day ceasefire. In April, Trump demanded “Vladimir STOP,” after a Russian missile strike on Kyiv left a dozen people dead. “Maybe he doesn’t really want to stop the war and is just tapping me along,” Trump mused later. The Trump scoldings have been routinely accompanied by expressions of personal disappointment and threats of possible retaliation, like secondary tariffs on “all oil coming out of Russia,” or unidentified “further sanctions.” Asked again, after the latest rebuke of Putin, whether he would now consider putting more sanctions on Russia, Trump replied: “Absolutely.” So far, there has been no real sign that Trump is prepared to use the substantial economic leverage at his disposal to force the Kremlin to rethink its hardline stance. Not so in the US Senate, where a cross-party bill has been introduced to make it more difficult for Russia to fund its war. The bill, now backed by 81 senators, not only proposes more direct sanctions on Russia, but also secondary sanctions, such as a massive 500% tariff on countries that buy Russian energy. But the measures, which would seriously impact an already fragile and oil-dependent Russian economy, are super-controversial as they would also punish China, India and the European Union, which are all still major Russian energy consumers. It is, of course, possible that Trump could now throw his weight behind the bill, or perhaps a watered-down version of it. But that would be a huge change in direction, given his consistent reluctance to confront and punish the Kremlin so far. More likely, the latest upsurge in violence in Ukraine may further convince an already frustrated US president that he is simply unable to bring the warring parties together any time soon. And, amid all his anger and bluster about Putin, Trump may simply choose to walk away.
An Austrian appeals court has overturned conservative former Chancellor Sebastian Kurz’s recent perjury conviction and the resulting eight-month suspended prison sentence, news agency APA reported on Monday. The ruling removes Kurz’s only criminal conviction, taking away a serious obstacle to a future political comeback for the 38-year-old, although prosecutors have yet to decide whether to charge him over potential corruption-related offenses in a separate investigation that forced him from office in 2021. The court was not immediately available for comment. Kurz denies all wrongdoing. “I have been confronted with accusations for years. There have been numerous court hearings - a huge amount of confrontation with these accusations. You have all witnessed how much this has been celebrated and that it has now all collapsed,” he said outside the court. The case centered on whether Kurz was merely kept informed of deliberations on the appointment of executives for newly created state holding company OBAG when he was chancellor, or was in fact making the decisions. The appointments were formally his finance minister’s responsibility. Kurz testified to a parliamentary commission of inquiry in 2020 that he was “involved in the sense of informed.” The judge who heard the case at first instance ruled that was not true and Kurz played an active role. “What has come out is what I have always said, namely that I did not tell any untruths in the committee of inquiry,” Kurz said. Kurz has left the Austrian People’s Party (OVP) and quit politics but some individuals within the OVP hope he will return if there is a change of party leadership, even though polling suggests the majority of Austrians do not want him to stage a comeback. Kurz led his party to election victories in 2017 and 2019 by adopting a hard line on immigration similar to that of the far-right Freedom Party (FPO), which won the last parliamentary election in September. He now works as a consultant and tech entrepreneur and says he is happy in his new career. Having come second in the last election, the OVP leads the current three-party centrist coalition government headed by OVP Chancellor Christian Stocker.
Firefighters in Germany had to use hydraulic equipment to free a man who got stuck under a train armrest while searching for a dropped AirPod. Emergency services were called to Lehrte station in north-central Germany on Friday evening following reports that a passenger was trapped, the local fire department said in a statement published Saturday. “What initially looked like a fairly simple rescue then developed into a complex rescue operation, however, as the person’s hand had swollen so much in the meantime that it could no longer be freed using simple rescue equipment,” it said. Firefighters had to dismantle a luggage rack and seats, then saw through the armrest before using hydraulic equipment to free the man, who was stuck for around an hour and half in total, it added. “The injured person was then handed over to the emergency services together with his AirPods, which had also been rescued,” said the fire department, which noted that a total of 11 firefighters and two vehicles were used in the operation. Police were also called to the scene because of what the fire department described as “unpleasant scenes” involving onlookers. “In order to prevent the gawkers from taking pictures of the trapped person with their mobile phones, the operation area was not only cordoned off over a wide area, but the direct view was blocked by a rescue blanket attached to the outside of the train,” the department said. Because of the length of time taken to free the man, the train was evacuated and a replacement service took the remaining passengers on their onward journey, it added.
Britain’s King Charles III arrived in Canada on Monday for his first visit as its head of state, where he’ll carry out a highly-symbolic whistle-stop trip seen by many as a show of support following increasingly frayed relations between Ottawa and Washington. During his two-day visit, Charles, 76, will deliver a speech in Canada’s parliament and celebrate the country’s cultural heritage and diversity, according to Buckingham Palace. He will be accompanied by his wife, Queen Camilla. Soon after their arrival on Monday, Charles and Camilla will meet with community organizations at an Ottawa park, according to the Canadian Prime Minister’s Office. Later on Monday, the pair will plant a tree on the grounds of Rideau Hall, the monarch’s usual residence while visiting Canada. Charles — who is still undergoing treatment for cancer — will attend the State Opening of Parliament on Tuesday, where he will deliver the ceremonial Speech from the Throne to the Senate chamber. The address marks only the second time in Canadian history that the reigning sovereign has opened parliament, and the third time that the British monarch has delivered the Speech from the Throne. The parliamentary address is typically delivered by the governor general, the British monarch’s representative in Canada. In a statement on Monday, Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney offered a preview of Charles’ address, writing that “the Speech from the Throne will outline the government’s ambitious plan to act with urgency and determination, and to deliver the change Canadians want and deserve.” Among the facets of that plan, according to Carney, is “a new economic and security relationship with the United States.” Charles’ visit comes as US President Donald Trump persistently references his desire to make Canada the 51st state and touts false claims that the Canadian public likes the idea of being annexed by the United States. In fact, the proposal is overwhelmingly unpopular among Canadians as a whole. Carney, who rose to power on a tide of anti-Trump sentiment in March, has repeatedly denounced the US president’s remarks. In his election victory speech, Carney warned that Canada would never yield to Trump’s relentless provocations. Carney doubled down on that message last month during an exchange with Trump in the Oval Office. “As you know from real estate, there are some places that are never for sale,” Carney told Trump, adding: “(Canada) is not for sale. It won’t be for sale, ever.” Ahead of Charles’ trip to Ottawa, Canada’s envoy to the United Kingdom, Ralph Goodale, told reporters the king will “reinforce” that same directive, according to Reuters. “The prime minister (Carney) has made it clear that Canada is not for sale now, is not for sale ever,” Goodale told journalists last week. “The king, as head of state, will reinforce the power and strength of that message,” Goodale said. Charles will also need to walk a careful diplomatic tightrope as British Prime Minister Keir Starmer seeks a stronger relationship with Trump over Ukraine and as he continues to pursue economic and trade guarantees. Carney said last week that his compatriots “weren’t impressed” after Charles extended a second state invitation to the US president. Trump would be the first elected political leader in modern times to be hosted twice by a British monarch. “It was at a time when we were being quite clear about the issues around sovereignty,” Carney said. King Charles and Queen Camilla are “mindful” of the gravity of their upcoming visit, Buckingham Palace said, according to the UK’s PA Media news agency. “The King and Queen are very much looking forward to the programme, mindful that it is a short visit but hopefully an impactful one,” PA reported, citing a palace spokesperson. CNN’s Lauren Said-Moorhouse and Paula Newton contributed reporting.
Twenty-seven minutes into a town hall with staff last week, US National Institutes of Health Director Dr. Jay Bhattacharya acknowledged that he was going to get into uncomfortable territory. “This one’s a tough one for me,” Bhattacharya told the audience of researchers and other NIH employees gathered in an auditorium at the biomedical research agency’s headquarters in Bethesda, Maryland, last Monday, before introducing one of the most divisive topics in science. “It’s possible that the [Covid-19] pandemic was caused by research conducted by human beings,” he said, according to a video obtained by CNN. “And it’s also possible that the NIH partly sponsored that research. And if that’s true – ” At that point, Bhattacharya paused to watch as dozens of NIH staffers stood and filed out of the auditorium. “It’s nice to have free speech,” he said with a smile. “Welcome, you guys.” Bhattacharya then persisted. “If it’s true that we sponsored research that caused a pandemic – and if you look at polls of the American people, that’s what most people believe, and I looked at the scientific evidence; I believe it – what we have to do is make sure that we do not engage in research that’s any risk of posing any risk to human populations,” he said. The walkout was a gentle protest, one Bhattacharya – a former Stanford professor of health policy and economics who frequently claimed to have been censored during the Covid-19 pandemic for communicating views in opposition with those held by US scientific leadership at the time – referred to later in the town hall as “silent dissent.” It represented not just disagreement with – and dismay over – Bhattacharya’s assertion that the NIH may bear some responsibility for the pandemic, which killed more than 7 million people worldwide, by sponsoring so-called gain-of-function research that created the SARS-CoV-2 virus that then leaked from a lab. That’s a view not shared by a large number of expert virologists and epidemiologists, who think it’s more likely the virus emerged via a spillover from animals. It was also a preplanned protest over working conditions; the staffers just chose to leave a little earlier than intended, as Bhattacharya made those comments, some told CNN.  The walkout was designed to communicate frustrations over scientists’ inability to do their jobs under the second Trump administration, they said. “We’d been trying to meet with Dr. Bhattacharya as members of the union to discuss issues we’ve had with working conditions that prevented us from doing our jobs and research,” said Dr. Kaitlyn Hajdarovic, a postdoctoral researcher at NIH. Like others who spoke with CNN, she emphasized that she was speaking in a personal capacity and as a member of a union representing about 5,000 early-career researchers at the NIH. Hajdarovic and others described issues obtaining materials for research because the people who do the purchasing had been dismissed; the firings and rehirings of scientist colleagues; the fear of a proposed 40% cut to the NIH budget; and general chaos and unpredictability that are disruptive to their day-to-day jobs. “We were trying to use this walkout as a way to get a sit-down meeting with Dr. Bhattacharya,” said Dr. Matt Manion, another NIH postdoctoral researcher and union member. “We’ve asked at least twice since he took over the role.” The union members, joined by others at the agency, had planned to leave the town hall at the start of Bhattacharya’s time answering pre-submitted questions, added Dr. Matthew Brown, a third union member and postdoctoral fellow. Bhattacharya and his chief of staff, Seana Cranston, noted several times that about 1,200 questions had been submitted and that they’d chosen the “hard ones” to answer. “Having these sort of preplanned town halls is not a substitute for actually sitting down with scientists who will do the research that improves the health of the American public,” Brown said. In response to CNN’s request for comment, a spokesman for HHS said, “at Monday’s town hall, the NIH Director addressed staff openly and took unscripted questions from the audience. The individuals who walked out had the opportunity to engage directly and voice their concerns constructively. Instead, they chose to walk out, seemingly driven more by political motives because of their dissent with this administration.” Brown countered that the group’s dissent “is based on the tremendous damage that has been done to taxpayer-funded biomedical research over the past four months. Protecting our research into diseases like cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer’s deserves more than a short question and answer session.” Still, although the walkout was planned for a different reason, the gain-of-function comments didn’t go over well. One NIH scientist tied the comments to a new policy that says the agency will prohibit foreign subaward grants, or research funding arrangements in which a grant recipient passes on some of the funding to foreign collaborators; the White House budget proposal for fiscal year 2026 cited NIH’s funding of research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology as part of its reasoning for a proposed nearly $18 billion cut to the NIH’s budget. “The notion that you can use the lab leak theory as justification to cancel all foreign subawards is ridiculous,” said the scientist, who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal. “They are doing it purely for political and/or ideological reasons. “Whether or not you agree with the theory, foreign subawards support research to prevent the next pandemic,” the scientist added. “Canceling them all at once with little to no warning is asking for another pandemic.” A spokesman for HHS said, “NIH is transitioning from foreign subawards to foreign subprojects to ensure that all recipients of American taxpayer dollars—whether domestic or international—are held to the same rigorous standards of oversight, accountability, and transparency.” There were other points of tension during the town hall, too. At one point, Bhattacharya took a previously submitted question about the NIH’s approach to diversity, equity and inclusion, an issue the Trump administration has targeted, terminating a large number of research grants. “The question is, how should we define health disparities research in a way that clearly separates it from DEI while continuing to address the costly consequences of US health disparities?” Cranston prompted Bhattacharya. Bhattacharya responded that he has, “in my own research, focused on vulnerable populations, and very often that means minority populations.” But, he continued, “there’s been a line of research supported by the NIH that I don’t actually fundamentally believe is scientific, that is ideological in nature.” To provide an example, Bhattacharya cited redlining, or racial discrimination in housing and lending practices. “You could imagine a study looking at the effect of redlining on the access to health care for people, right? That’s a completely legitimate kind of study,” Bhattacharya said. “That would be a, I think, completely legitimate kind of study for the NIH to support.” A member of the audience then spoke up. “Then why is NIH terminating them?” she said. “I’m sorry, the NIH is not terminating those studies,” Bhattacharya responded. “I want to make a distinction –” “Oh, I disagree!” the audience member shot back as colleagues applauded. “Let me finish,” Bhattacharya said. “So the other kind of studies, for instance, what I want to distinguish from is something like ‘structural racism causes poor health in minority populations.’ ” “What do you think redlining is?” the audience member said. “The problem there is that it’s not a scientific hypothesis,” Bhattacharya argued. “You can’t, in principle, think of a way to test that hypothesis where, in principle, you could falsify it.” The director also told NIH staff that he’d arrived in the job the day of mass dismissals as part of the HHS’ Reduction in Force, or RIF, April 1, and that he hadn’t had a say in them. HHS said it cut 1,200 employees from the NIH. “I actually don’t have any transparency in how those decisions were made,” Bhattacharya said. “And I was quite upset about that. It would be nice to have had some say.” Trump administration cut $2.7 billion in NIH research funding through March, Senate committee minority report says Bhattacharya said he’s tried to make conditions better since he arrived based on feedback from employees, including by turning purchasing cards back on and enabling travel to conferences. He also suggested that he’d put a stop to a requirement that employees send an email each week detailing five things they’d accomplished. “I heard you guys have to do five points every week,” Bhattacharya said. “That was ridiculous. I’m really flat proud that we don’t have to have some of the best scientists in the world tell me what they did last week with five points. That made no sense.” The audience applauded that. And later in the program, Bhattacharya took a few questions from the audience that didn’t appear planned. To one, which was inaudible on the video CNN reviewed, Bhattacharya responded, “No gloves? … That should not be happening. We’ll get that fixed.” A week after the town hall, the union members said they still hadn’t heard from Bhattacharya’s office about scheduling a meeting.
Fans attending a Lorde-themed club night at a Sydney venue were left in disbelief on Sunday night when the singer herself turned up to the event. Those attending the club night, organized by Sugarush at Mary’s Underground, were only expecting to “come dance (or cry) in the club as DJ @xeimma plays all the eras,” as had been advertised. But, shortly beforehand, whispers began to circulate at the venue that Lorde herself might attend because her security had done a walkthrough, Emma Parke, the DJ at the event, told CNN. Then, 20 minutes before Lorde arrived, Parke got a heads-up that she was coming, teed up all her biggest Lorde hits, and “just hope(d) for the best,” she said. The crowd had no such warning, however, and only realized the New Zealand star was there when she began interacting with some of them. Two of Parke’s friends were the first to speak to the singer as she “tapped them on the shoulder and was like ‘Oh I heard there’s a club night on tonight…,’” Parke recalled. “And then people turned their heads and started to notice. You just saw people processing it for a second, and then all of a sudden, there was this complete shift and chaos. But good chaos.” Frenzied videos posted on Instagram show the Grammy-award winning singer on the dancefloor with her fans, dancing in the middle of a circle they formed around her. “So many people had their own little moment with her,” Parke said. “Her energy was just so kind and genuine … It just felt like we were all friends, and she seemed stoked to be there.” Lorde, whose real name is Ella Yelich-O’Connor, stayed around 20 minutes, at one point joining Parke on the stage where she was DJing. Then, as she turned to leave, Parke played “Girl, so confusing,” a remix track on which Lorde collaborated with Charli XCX, and “she ended up coming back into the mosh, and stuck around a little longer.” The club night had been scheduled to coincide with the release of Lorde’s latest single, “What Was That,” ahead of her new album, “Virgin,” dropping on June 27. This was the second surprise appearance Lorde has made in the run-up to her album release. In April, she danced with fans in New York’s Washington Square Park after police shut down her attempt to stage an impromptu concert.
Brazil’s President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was diagnosed with labyrinthitis Monday after suffering from vertigo, hospital officials said. The 79-year-old leftist leader has already returned to the country’s presidential residence, where he is resting. The Sirio-Libanes Hospital said in a statement that Lula underwent imaging and blood tests, and its results came within normal limits. Labyrinthitis is an inflammation of the labyrinth in the inner ear, which is responsible for hearing and balance. The health scare adds to Lula’s recent medical worries, which are also part of his allies’ concerns ahead of his likely bid for reelection next year. The most serious is a fall he had in the bathroom of the presidential residence in Brasília on Oct. 19. Almost two months later, he was transferred to São Paulo for surgery after suffering headaches caused by new a bleeding in his head. He was discharged Dec. 15.
A week and a half after 10 inmates broke out of a New Orleans jail, three of the escapees were captured Monday — leaving only two at large, according to the Louisiana State Police. Inmate Lenton Vanburen was detained in Baton Rouge, 72 miles northwest of New Orleans, Louisiana Attorney General Liz Murrill said in a post on X, while Leo Tate and Jermaine Donald were taken into custody in Walker County, Texas﻿, by the Texas Department of Public Safety. Van buren was originally in jail on suspicion of a parole violation, possession of firearm by felon and illegal carrying of a weapon, Murrill said. “He will now face additional charges related to the escape,” she added. No additional details have been released about Tate and Donald’s recapture. The inmates caught Monday were the first of the escapees found outside of New Orleans. Authorities continue to search for two additional escaped inmates, as seven people have been arrested in connection with assisting them. Aside from the three men captured Monday, Kendell Myles, Robert Moody, Dkenan Dennis, Gary Price and Corey Boyd are back in custody. Derrick Groves and Antoine Massey remain at large and are considered armed and dangerous. The inmates allegedly used electric hair trimmers with multiple clipper blades to help cut their way through the cell walls, a source with direct knowledge of the investigation told CNN. The capture of three inmates across two states Monday brings authorities closer to ending a prison break blamed on faulty locks, stolen blankets and a hungry employee who allegedly played a role in their escape. Orleans Parish District Attorney Jason Williams and AG Murrill visited the Orleans Justice Center earlier this week as part of the ongoing investigation into the escape. Additionally, the Louisiana Department of Public Safety and Corrections is deploying at least 10 seasoned auditors to the Orleans Justice Center to investigate the jailbreak. The district attorney said last week the director of the New Orleans Police Department Crime Lab visited the jail to begin a formal forensic processing of the scene, which he said was not requested by the sheriff’s office. Williams asked the sheriff’s office to voluntarily cooperate with the forensic analysis by sharing any records of staff fingerprints or DNA “for the purpose of inclusion or elimination of their profiles,” according to a letter Williams sent to the sheriff’s office on Thursday that was obtained by CNN. A separate letter from Thursday formally requested the sheriff’s office preserve all records related to the jailbreak, including surveillance video and electronic communications between staff. “If you were manning the security system, you would have known a door was opening,” former Orleans Parish Sheriff Marlin Gusman, who ran the jail from 2004 to 2022, told CNN. “Especially in the middle of the night,” Gusman said. Gusman told CNN he has no idea how the inmates got into the pipe chase behind the toilet and sink, but emphasized they had to navigate through walls made with a “substantial” network of concrete molding about “5 inches thick” and mixed with rebar, which is reinforced steel. A maintenance worker with the Orleans Parish Sheriff’s Office, Sterling Williams, was arrested Tuesday. Williams, 33, is accused of “willfully and maliciously” assisting with the jailbreak, according to an affidavit. He faces one count of malfeasance in office and 10 counts of being a principal to simple escape. Williams’ attorney, Michael Kennedy, said the worker was turning off water to an overflowing toilet after being told to do so and is “fully convinced” of his client’s innocence. Six other people are being accused of helping the inmates in some way, including an inmate already in custody in the same facility the escapees broke out of. Investigators continue to comb through previous jail phone recordings and believe that other incarcerated inmates or employees at the jail could face additional charges for their role assisting in escape and initial cover-up in the hours following the jailbreak, according to the source with direct knowledge of the investigation. Trevon Williams was arrested on Friday in connection with the inmates’ escape. Trevon Williams, who was already in jail on unrelated charges, was rebooked on an additional charge of principal to simple escape, according to an X post from Murrill. The others arrested are accused of being accessories after the fact, authorities said. This story has been updated with additional information. CNN’s Ryan Young contributed to this report.
Iran is open to compromises on its nuclear program in talks with the United States, but uranium enrichment remains non-negotiable, Tehran’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson told CNN, indicating Washington understands this position. “If the intention is to make sure that Iran’s nuclear program would not be weaponized, I think that’s something that we could simply do,” Esmail Baghaei, the spokesperson for Iran’s Foreign ministry, said in Tehran on Monday. Asked by CNN how a compromise can be reached in talks, Baghaei said, “So many ways” without specifying. However, he added that Iran’s right to nuclear energy would have to be protected, echoing the long-standing Iranian position on talks. “If the (US’) intention is to deprive Iranians of their right to peaceful nuclear energy, I think that would be very problematic to the extent that I think it would really challenge the whole process,” he added. After US-Iran talks inched forward with the fifth round of negotiations in Rome on Friday, President Donald Trump voiced optimism Sunday that progress was being made. “We had some very good talks with Iran yesterday and today, and let’s see what happens. But I think we could have some good news on the Iran front,” Trump told reporters in New Jersey as he was preparing to return to Washington. Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi called the talks “one of the most professional rounds of negotiations” yet but said the key issues were “too complicated to be resolved in two or three meetings.” While the Trump administration has been bullish on its demand that Tehran end all uranium enrichment – essential for both civilian and military nuclear applications – Baghaei said US negotiators’ behavior in talks suggests a softer approach. “The fact that so far we have continued our talks means that we understand there is a certain level of understanding that Iran cannot under any circumstances give up its right to peaceful nuclear energy,” he said. In March, Rafael Grossi, the head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog IAEA, said Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium had increased by half in three months. “Iran is the only non-nuclear weapon state enriching to this level, causing me serious concern,” he said. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei publicly dismissed the chances of a deal and goaded US negotiators ahead of Friday’s talks. “Try not to talk nonsense,” he urged them in a post attributed to him on his official website last week. But Baghaei was optimistic about the chances of a US-Iranian accord, foreseeing a “win-win” for both sides. “If really there is a will, there’s ways,” he said. “There is not only one way, there are so many ways.” Multiple American officials told CNN last week that the US has obtained new intelligence suggesting that Israel is preparing to strike Iranian nuclear facilities even as the Trump administration pursues a diplomatic deal with Tehran. Baghaei said Iran was resolute before the threat of unilateral Israeli military strikes on Iran. “Iranians would not be conducive to any sort of pressure,” he said. “When it comes to using that language, Iranians will come with one voice, and we will certainly defend our national security.”
Memorial Day marks the unofficial start to summer, but this year, it may also kick off a season of higher prices. Small businesses that sell beer, fireworks and other summer staples told CNN they are grappling with higher costs amid new tariffs that the Trump administration placed on nearly all imports to the United States last month. Here’s what you should know. While many economists expect prices to rise from President Donald Trump’s tariffs, it’s certainly true that not all items are seeing price increases — yet. In fact, US inflation in April slowed to its lowest rate in more than four years. That means some summer products may still be spared from an inflationary squeeze as tariffs work their way through the economy, said Ernie Tedeschi, the former chief economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers during the Biden administration and the director of economics at the Budget Lab at Yale University, which has been tracking the tariff impact on consumers. But if you’re planning a cookout, tariff-induced price increases could hit your grocery bill sooner than other price hikes. “Perishable goods like food are the imports that turn over more quickly,” Tedeschi said. “So the price that you see at any given time is more likely to reflect tariffs.” The cost of buying a new barbecue to grill that food might still be stable, though, he said. “Where there’s more of a delay on tariffs are things like durable goods, like a barbecue or grill,” Tedeschi said. “The reason is that retailers like Home Depot and Best Buy generally still have a large pre-tariff inventory. They will likely sell through that first before they start selling the tariffed goods that cost more.” Another key ingredient to most barbecues also hasn’t been spared by tariffs: beer. In April, President Donald Trump placed a 25% tariff on imported aluminum and steel, including empty aluminum cans and imported canned beer. About 38.5%, or 16.1 million barrels of imported beer, came in cans in 2024, according to the Brewers Association, a trade association for brewers. Even local, US-based brewers are feeling cost pressures rise. Sheila Malone, a manager at Long Ireland Beer Company in Riverhead, New York, told CNN that rising expenses have left the future of her business uncertain. Malone said she’s seen the cost of everything from hops to plastic cups rise over the last few years. Now, she estimates the cost of the aluminum cans her company purchases has risen between 10% and 15% this year. “Every day we open up our social media and we see another brewery that we follow saying they are closing their doors, and that’s a really scary reality for us,” Malone said. Long Ireland Beer Company recently raised its prices for the first time in years to keep up, said Malone, who added that the company is searching for lower-cost aluminum suppliers and seeking new ways to grow profits to stay afloat. Memorial Day weekend also kicks off the busy season for fireworks businesses. Douglas Burda, the CEO of Red Apple Fireworks, said the majority of fireworks are imported from China, which has been producing fireworks for hundreds of years. There are very few businesses that manufacture fireworks in the United States, Burda noted. On April 10, tariffs on nearly all Chinese imports, including fireworks, climbed as high as 145% as a tit-for-tat trade conflict between China and the United States escalated. About a month later, the Trump administration announced it would temporarily lower the tax on Chinese imports to 30%. Burda said he hasn’t had to raise prices yet, since his company has stockpiled enough fireworks to last through the summer in its large warehouse and retail spaces. However, Americans who buy fireworks at roadside stands will likely face higher prices this summer due to tariffs, Burda said. “Consumers by and large buy fireworks at the last minute on the side of the road. You’re always going to see higher prices when you do that,” Burda said. “But now, for certain, those already-high prices are going to be even higher.” However, there may be one place to find savings if you are one of the nearly 40 million Americans traveling by car this Memorial Day. The national average price of a gallon of gasoline is expected to be $3.08 on Memorial Day, according to projections released Tuesday by fuel savings platform GasBuddy. That is the lowest gas price for Memorial Day weekend since 2021. For many Americans, Memorial Day is about more than pool parties and picnics. It is a day dedicated to honoring and remembering the people who died while serving in the US military. Americans who may be looking to purchase an American flag this holiday weekend will have a harder time finding cheaper flags produced overseas this year, said Reggie VandenBosch, who works at Valley Forge Flag Company, one of the largest American flag manufacturers. That’s because earlier this month, a major shipping loophole, known as the de minimis exemption, which allowed shipments of goods worth $800 or less to come into the United States duty-free, expired. Now those lower-cost shipments are taxed between 30% and 54%. Before the loophole was closed, e-commerce sites like Amazon had been flooded with cheaper flags claiming to be American-made. “Many Americans don’t think of an American flag as being an American flag if it’s made offshore,” VandenBosch said. “Now that the de minimis loophole was eliminated, we’re already starting to see sales return on those platforms back to the domestic players.” - CNN’s Matt Egan contributed to reporting.
